WELCOME TO THE
THIRD DAY MARCH 10TH 20 22
MEETING AT THE END OF OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THIS MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON FOR MEMBERS OF THE
COMMISSION AND FOR APPLICANTS
WHO HAVE ELECTED TO ALSO COME
IN PERSON.
IT IS ALSO BEING BROADCAST
ELECTRONICALLY FOR APPLICANTS
WHO ARE NOT IN PERSON AND
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO PARTICIPATE.
PUBLIC COMMENT WILL BE VIA
TELEPHONE ONLY TO SPEAK DURING
ANY THE PUBLIC COMMENT
OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE CALL 888
SEVEN EIGHT EIGHT ZERO ZERO
NINE NINE OR TWO ONE THREE
THREE THREE EIGHT EIGHT FOUR
SEVEN SEVEN AND OR YOU CAN DO
IT IN PERSON.
OK I&apos;M SORRY THAT&apos;S IMPLIED BUT
YOU SAID YES.
TELEPHONE.
OH YES.
MORE PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLIC
PUBLISHED AGENDA IN PUBLIC
NOTES SECTION OF THE CITY
WEBSITE AND ON THE PODCAST
OF THIS MEETING ON TTN CHANNEL
16, AT&amp;T CHANNEL NINETY NINE
AND ONLINE W-W EIGHT TO GO DOT
ORG FORWARD SLASH WATCH IN MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE COMMISSIONER ROSS PRESENT
COMMISSIONER WILLIS PRESENT
COMMISSIONER RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER HERE COMMISSIONER
FORTNER HERE COMMISSIONER
EVERSON COMMISSIONER QUIJANO
HERE GOT A QUORUM.
NICE TO SEE EVERYBODY.
&gt;&gt; WELCOME EVERYONE.
GREAT TO SEE APPROVAL
OF AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA?
&gt;&gt; WE RECEIVED AN UPDATED ONE
JUST RECENTLY.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
ITEM FOUR FOR WAS REMOVED FROM
THE OTHER BECAUSE THAT PETITION
WAS WITHDRAWN BY THE APPLICANT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAVE THREE HEARINGS
TONIGHT CHEERING AND SAYING NO
OBJECTIONS TO THE AGENDA.
&gt;&gt; IT IS PROVED AS PRESENTED TO
ITEM BY PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH THE
PRESERVATION PRESERVATION
MATTERS, PLEASE CALL EIGHT
SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE
FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
THEIR HAND BY USING THE ONE BY
ONE BY USING THE LAST THREE
DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE NUMBER IN
ORDER TO ELECTRONICALLY RAISE
YOUR HAND PLEASE PRESS STAR
NINE ON YOUR PHONE OR THEY CAN
COME UP TO THE OR COME UP TO
THE PODIUM IF YOU ARE IN THE
AUDITORIUM.
KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY NO
CALLERS HAVE INDICATED NO ONE
IN THE CHAMBERS.
&gt;&gt; I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT PORTION FOR TONIGHT AND
TO AMI UNFINISHED BUSINESS
THERE IS NO UNFINISHED BUSINESS
TO MOVE IN TO THE HEARINGS ITEM
F ONE FIVE TWENTY FOUR FOR
STREET THIS TWO STORY GABAL
FRONT OR FEATURES GABLE CORNER
RETURNS WOULD SIDING WITH
SHINGLES IN THE FRONT GABLE
WOOD CORNER BOARD TRIM A CUT
STONE FOUNDATION ONE OF OUR ONE
WINDOWS AND A BRICK HALF WITH
WRAPAROUND FRONT PORCH WITH A
PEDIMENT GABLE HALF RIGHT ROUND
COLUMNS BRICK WING WALLS ALONG
THE WOOD FRONT STAIRS THE FIRST
APPEARS IN CITY DIRECTORIES IN
NINETEEN OH FOUR IS THE HOME
OF GEORGE AND MATILDA BUBLEY
AND IT&apos;S LOCATED ON THE WEST
SIDE OF FIRST STREET SOUTH
OF WEST JEFFERSON THE NORTH
WEST MADISON IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THE APPLICANT SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A ONE
HUNDRED AND NINETY FIVE SQUARE
FOOT ADDITION AND A FIFTEEN BY
APPROXIMATELY 12 FOOT WOOD DECK
ON THE REAR OF THE HOME.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE HOUSE FROM THE
STREET.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;LL JUST TAKE A WALK
AROUND IT IN PHOTOS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S A COMBINATION OF PHOTOS
FROM THE REVIEW COMMITTEE AND
THAT WERE SUBMITTED BY THE
APPLICANT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE HOUSE NOW WE&apos;RE WE&apos;VE WE
FLIPPED AROUND.
YOU CAN SEE THE BACK HERE.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF ADDITIONS
ON THE BACK OF THE HOUSE.
THESE ARE BOTH MODDER AND THESE
ONE STOREY PART AND THAT&apos;LL
MAKE SENSE ON THIS SLIDE.
IT&apos;S THIS ONE IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT
HIGHER AND THEN THIS REAR
EDITION SO CURRENTLY TWO SMALL
ADDITIONS THIS ONE AND A HALF
STOREY WING ON THE BACK IS
PREDATES NINETEEN FORTY FIVE
ANOTHER PHOTO OF THE REAR AND
WHERE THE DECK IS BUT NOT AT
LARGE IS WHERE AN ADDITIONAL
ONE STORY ADDITION IS PROPOSED
TO INFILL REAR CORNER OF THE
HOUSE THERE ARE TWO WINDOWS YOU
CAN SEE IN THESE PHOTOS THAT
WOULD BE ENVELOPED BY THE
ADDITION.
THIS ONE IS PROPOSED TO REMAIN
ON THE INTERIOR AS A PASS
THROUGH WINDOW BUT THIS ONE
WOULD COME OUT BECAUSE THE WALL
WOULD BE TAKEN OUT.
MORE ON THE LET&apos;S SEE THIS MUST
BE THE SOUTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE
ALONGSIDE THE DRIVEWAY AND HERE
ON THE LEFT IS A DRAWING OF THE
LOT A SIDE PLAN SHOWING THE
EXISTING HOUSE NINETEEN EIGHTY
SIX THE NINETEEN SIXTIES
ADDITIONS HERE THAT WRAP AROUND
THE CORNER AND WHERE THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS WOULD GO
HERE YOU CAN SEE IT WELL ON THE
THE BASEMENT PLAN THIS IS SET
IN A GOOD LET&apos;S SEE TWO FEET
FROM THE CORNER WHICH IS MUCH
APPRECIATED AND IT&apos;S WORKED OUT
A LITTLE BIT TO DISTINGUISH IT
FROM THAT OTHER ADDITION ON THE
BACK ON THIS CORNER THIS IS THE
EXISTING WALL WHERE THE DASH
LINES ARE.
SO THIS WOULD ESSENTIALLY PUSH
THE KITCHEN OUT, GIVE THEM A
LOT MORE ROOM TO WORK WITH AND
ALSO HERE&apos;S THE DECK ON THE
BACK OF THE HOUSE.
IT&apos;S A WOOD DECK WITH
APPROPRIATE STYLES OF RAILINGS
AND SOME STEPS GOING DOWN TO
THE BACKYARD.
THERE IS A SECTION THAT&apos;S
HELPFUL IN THE APPLICATION
ATTACHMENT.
HERE&apos;S WHAT THE REAR ELEVATION
WOULD LOOK LIKE WITH THE
ADDITIONS THIS THIS GABLED REAR
FACING ADDITION WOULD WOULD
IMITATE THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
WHERE THERE IS A FRONT FACING
MORE OF A PEDIMENTS GABLE ON
TOP OF THE FRONT PORCH.
BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S DESIGNED TO
IMITATE THAT AND BE
COMPLEMENTARY TO THAT WHICH WE
ALREADY KNOW WORKS WELL WITH
THE HOUSE AND HERE WE HAVE A
NORTH ELEVATION AND THE SOUTH
ELEVATION.
THIS IS THE SIDE THAT&apos;S THE
MOST VISIBLE WERE THAT DECK IS
NOW AND WE&apos;VE JUST GOT VERY
SIMPLE WOOD DECK EXTENDING OFF
THE BACK AND THIS IS THE
EXISTING ADDITION THAT THIS
WOOD JUT OUT JUST A LITTLE BIT
FROM AND THE ROOF IS TALLER
OF COURSE.
SO GOING THROUGH THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES THAT MOST APPLY
SECURED INTERIOR STANDARD NO
ONE SAYS A PROPERTY WILL BE
USED AS IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR
BE GIVEN A NEW USE THAT
REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE TO ITS
DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS, FEATURES
SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS.
NO TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF A PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED AND PRESERVED THE
REMOVAL OF DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS OR ALTERATION
OF FEATURES, SPACES AND SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS THAT CHARACTERIZE
PROPERTY WILL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIAL FEATURES FINISHES AND
CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP TO
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW EDITIONS,
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD AND
SHALL BE COMPATIBLE WITH THE
MASSING SIZE SCALE AND
ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES TO
PROTECT THE HISTORIC INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY AND ITS
ENVIRONMENT.
NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS AND
ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL BE
UNIMPAIRED FROM THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS RECOMMENDED AS
CONSTRUCTING A NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THERE&apos;S THE LEAST POSSIBLE
LOSS OF HISTORIC MATERIALS.
AND SO THE CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES ARE NOT OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED ALSO
RECOMMENDED AS CONSIDERING THE
ATTACHED EXTERIOR ADDITIONS
BOTH IN TERMS OF THE NEW USE
AND THE APPEARANCE OF OTHER
BUILDINGS IN THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR NEIGHBORHOOD.
DESIGN FOR THE WORK MAY BE
CONTEMPORARY OR MAY REFERENCE
DESIGN MOTIFS FROM THE HISTORIC
BUILDING AND FROM THE INTERIOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO PLACE A NEW
EDITION AND A NON CHARACTER
DEFINING OR INCONSPICUOUS
ELEVATION AND LIMIT THE SIZE
AND SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY.
ALSO DESIGNING A NEW EDITION IN
A MANNER THAT MAKES CLEAR WHAT
IS HISTORIC AND WHAT IS NEW.
IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO PLACE
NEW WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE
FROM THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN
A SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
STARK FABRIC AND TO LIMIT THE
SIZE AND SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS
IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING.
SO THAT DOES NOT DIMINISH OR
VISUALLY OVERPOWER THE BUILDING
OR THE DISTRICT.
THE ADDITIONS SHOULD NOT EXCEED
ONE HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING&apos;S FOOTPRINT OR ONE
HALF OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING&apos;S
TOTAL FLOOR AREA.
ALL RIGHT.
RUN BACK UP TO SOME OF MY NOTES
SO IN TERMS OF THE FOOTPRINT
AND FLOOR AREA, THIS ADDITION
IS ALL FALLS WELL WELL WITHIN
THE FIFTY PERCENT DEADLINE FOR
THE MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF ADDITIONS
.
THE FOOTPRINT WITH THIS EDITION
WOULD BE
FORTY FIVE POINT FIVE
PERCENT AND THE FLOOR AREA
WOULD BE AT TWENTY TWO POINT
EIGHT PERCENT WINDOWS ON THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONAL POWER WOULD
CASEMENT&apos;S THAT ARE CLAD IN
ALUMINUM THE PROPORTION BE
COMPLEMENTARY IN SIZE AND SHAPE
TO THE HISTORIC WINDOWS?
THE NEW DOOR IS ALSO A POWERFUL
ALUMINUM THAT SO FULL LIGHT
ALUMINUM CLAD WOOD CLADDING ON
THE ADDITIONS WOULD HAVE TO
MATCH THE HOUSE WITH SHINGLE
GABLE TRIM TO MATCH THE FRONT
GABLE.
I&apos;M REALLY NOT CONCERNED ABOUT
THIS MATCHING TOO MUCH BECAUSE
OF THE WINDOW CONFIGURATION THE
LOCATIONS OF THE WINDOWS, THE
FOUNDATION MATERIALS IT&apos;S GOING
TO LOOK LIKE AN ADDITION AND
IT&apos;S NOT I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T
BELIEVE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE
CONFUSED AS SOMETHING OLD BY
ANYONE EVEN IF IT HAS WOOD
SIDING ON IT.
OUR STAFF BELIEVES THAT THE
WORK DOES NOT HAVE A
DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON HISTORIC
MATERIALS, FEATURES OR SPACES
AND THAT THE APPLICATION SHOULD
BE APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. ARCHER.
COMMISSIONER AKIHIRO AND MYSELF
WE&apos;RE ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
DO YOU WANT TO START MR. OKAY.
I DON&apos;T HAVE TOO MUCH MORE TO
ADD THE PHOTOGRAPHS AND THE
STAFF REPORT WERE VERY THOROUGH
.
I GUESS THE ONE ONE THING THAT
I DID TAKE NOTE OF AS WE WERE
WALKING TOWARDS THE DRIVEWAY
FROM THE I GUESS IT&apos;S THE SOUTH
SIDE NOW YOU DO GET KIND OF A
CLEAR VIEW ALONG THAT THAT
ELEVATION OF THE PROPERTY, THAT
SIDE OF THE PROPERTY AND THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS IS SET BACK
AS MISS THATCHER SAID TWO FEET
FROM THAT BACK CORNER.
SO WOULD BE FURTHER BACK THAN
THAT RAILING THAT WE SEE RIGHT
NOW.
SO KIND OF TIDY THAT UP I THINK
NOT NOT THAT THAT&apos;S CURRENTLY
AN ISSUE BUT THAT WOULD BE A
VISUAL CHANGE OTHER THAN THAT,
NOT MUCH MORE TO ADD.
YEAH, I ALSO AGREE WITH STAFF
REPORT.
I THINK THIS HOUSE IS VERY WELL
MAINTAINED.
IT HAS A LOT OF ITS ORIGINAL
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
I THINK THE THE PROPOSED
EDITION IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD.
&gt;&gt; THIS PHOTO YOU WOULD YOU
WOULD SEE THE ADDITIONS, YOU
KNOW, FROM THE STREET BUT I
THINK IT THERE IS YOU&apos;D SEE THE
BACK OF IT.
IT&apos;S MUCH LOWER THAN THE REST
OF THE HOUSE AND THERE&apos;S A NICE
VIEW SHED EVEN TO THE BACK, YOU
KNOW, CARRIAGE HOUSE IT&apos;S BACK
THERE AS WELL.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT DRAWS TOO
MUCH AWAY FROM FROM THE HOUSE
OVERALL.
UM, I DON&apos;T REALLY HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE TO ADD.
I THINK THIS ONE IS PRETTY
STRAIGHTFORWARD OR THE APPLE
CART I BELIEVE IS HERE IN IN
PERSON WITH US.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO STEP UP
TO THE PODIUM, IS THERE A LIST
TO WRITE THEIR NAME?
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S NOT OK, JUST ASK MR.
IF YOU COULD STATE YOUR NAME
FOR THE RECORD AND IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD TO
THE STAFF REPORT OR REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT YOU HAVE UP TO
THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK.
DID RAMSEY AND I&apos;VE ALWAYS
ADMIRED THE OLD WEST SIDE
ASSOCIATION LIVING THERE AND
EARLIER I LIVED IN A SMALL
HOUSE AND IT WAS FURTHER UP BY
THE HIGH SCHOOL AND MY KIDS
WENT TO THE SCHOOL AND LOVED IT
AND WHEN WE STARTED LOOKING FOR
A HOUSE WE WENT ALL OVER TOWN
AND WE ENDED UP COMING BACK TO
THE WITH AND WE WERE FORTUNATE
THAT THIS HOUSE WAS AVAILABLE
AND SO WE MADE AN OFFER ON IT
AND WE&apos;VE BEEN THERE.
LET&apos;S SEE HOW MANY YEARS?
TWENTY ONE.
YEAH.
AND SO IT WAS SINCE TWENTY
YEARS SINCE WHEN TWO THOUSAND
AND ONE AND IT&apos;S BEEN A
PLEASURE TO LIVE THERE.
I WALK TO WORK AT THE
UNIVERSITY AND NEVER DRILL AT
THIS POINT I HAVE A 23 YEAR OLD
VOLKSWAGEN WITH SEVENTY
THOUSAND MILES ON IT SO I GET
PAID TO WALK AND WE&apos;VE BEEN
DELIGHTED TO GO JUST YET AND
LIKE WE WALKED OVER HERE
TONIGHT AND WE&apos;D WALK OVER
DOWNTOWN TO DOWNTOWN.
WE GO TO THE BANKS.
WE DO A LITTLE SHOPPING AND
IT&apos;S BEEN DELIGHTFUL PLACE TO
LIVE.
THE STREET IS GREAT.
THE NEIGHBORS ARE FANTASTIC AND
WE PRETTY MUCH OK.
I&apos;LL BE VERY QUICK.
I DO WANT TO SAY THAT WHAT WE
DID WE SPENT A LOT OF TIME
LOOKING AT THE HOUSE WITH THE
ARCHITECT AND WE MADE
SUGGESTIONS ON KEEPING
ROOFLINES AND WINDOW SIZES AND
EVERYTHING TO BE COMPATIBLE
WITH THE ORIGINAL HOUSE AND AS
AN ARTIST I THOUGHT IT WAS
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
NOT CHANGE THE ARCHITECTURAL
ESTHETIC OF IT AND SO WE WE
STAYED AS CLOSE AS WE COULD AND
STILL GET A KITCHEN THAT WE
COULD WORK IN.
I&apos;M HOLLENBERG RAMSEY MARRIAGE
AND THE NECESSITY FOR ENLARGING
KITCHEN IS THAT ARCHITECTURE IS
MINUSCULE AND TWO PEOPLE CAN&apos;T
STAND IN THERE AND WORK AT THE
SAME TIME.
PLUS WE HAVE A VENTILATION
PROBLEM THAT IS ACTUALLY IS A
VIOLATION.
OUR STOVE JUST GAS STOVE
DOESN&apos;T GET TO THE AND SO WE
GET KEYNOTERS AND SMOKE.
YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES ENOUGH IS
ENOUGH AND WE LOVE THE HISTORIC
NATURE OF NOT ONLY OUR HOUSE
BUT THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND VERY
MUCH NEIGHBORHOOD PERSON AND I
WALK MY DOG AND I KNOW A LOT
OF PEOPLE AND I I, I PRAISE THE
ARCHITECTURE AS IT IS AND
ACTUALLY WE WERE LOOKING AT
WINDOWS YESTERDAY STAINED GLASS
WINDOWS TO GROW AT MATERIALS
LIMITED AND I DON&apos;T READ THAT
OR THE TOP HOW PICKS SO WE&apos;RE
KEEPING THE WINDOWS.
I LOVE THE ARCHITECTURE SO AND
THEN FROM THE REAR WE&apos;RE GOING
TO USE THE THE OLD WINDOWS AND
HAVE A FACE ON THE INSIDE.
SO WE&apos;RE USING THE OLD MATERIAL
IF WE PRESERVE WHATEVER WE CAN
THAT&apos;S BEAUTIFUL.
IT IS BEAUTIFUL.
WHATEVER HAPPENS TO THAT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT QUESTION.
YEAH.
COMMISSIONERS, DO YOU HAVE ANY
OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT PATRICK WHITE I&apos;M THE
DRAWINGS IT SAYS SKYLAKE
QUESTIONMARK I THINK ONE OF THE
INTERIOR ELEVATION&apos;S SO I&apos;M
CURIOUS ARE YOU ADDING A
SKYLIGHT TO THE ROOF ANYWHERE
OR IS THAT BEEN SCRATCHED OR
THAT WAS MAYBE IN ERROR NOT 100
PERCENT SURE THAT WILL BE IT
WORTH THINKING ABOUT OK BUT
IT&apos;S NOT DRAWN BUT CAN YOU TELL
US WHERE IT MIGHT BE IF YOU
PLAN TO INSTALL IT AND WE&apos;RE
JUST NOT SURE I&apos;M NOT AN
ARCHITECT.
YEAH I KNOW BUT I DON&apos;T LIKE
WHERE WOULD THE SKYLIGHT BE IF
YOU CHOOSE TO INSTALL THE
SKYLIGHT IT I NEED TO SEE YOU
AGAIN.
YEAH, IT&apos;S RIGHT THERE PROBABLY
FROM HERE COULD BE IN A
LOCATION ON THE DRIVEWAY SIDE
ON THE DRIVEWAY SIDE SINCE IT&apos;S
NOT DRAWN ON HERE
COMMISSIONERS&apos; THAT WOULD BE A
REALLY EASY REPROVAL APPROVAL.
YEAH.
WHAT IF YOU DECIDE YOU WANT TO
INSTALL LATER ON WE DIDN&apos;T COME
TO WORK.
YEAH THIS IS MARSHA AND TED IF
IF YOU DECIDE THAT YOU WANT TO
INSTALL IT LATER OH NO IT&apos;S OK
IT&apos;S OK IF YOU DECIDE LATER
THAT YOU WANT TO INSTALL IT
IT&apos;S A VERY EASY STAFF APPROVAL
YOU WOULD JUST FILL OUT A NEW
APPLICATION.
IT&apos;S A THIRTY FIVE DOLLAR FEE
BECAUSE THIS IS IN THE BACK OUT
OF SIGHT ON A NEW WING.
&gt;&gt; I CAN STAFF APPROVE THAT FOR
SURE.
ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS?
IT IS SO HARD TO MASKS.
YEAH YOU CAN&apos;T SEE YOU GUYS ARE
GREAT.
THERE IS TOO OK WE CAN MOVE ON
TO A PUBLIC HEARING PORTION FOR
THIS APPLICATION.
UH THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE TWENTY FOUR
S FIRST STREET UM IF YOU WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK PLEASE INDICATE
BY PRESSING START ON YOUR PHONE
AND YOU GUYS CAN GO AHEAD AND
SIT DOWN.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
INDICATING TO SPEAK HAVE
INDICATED FOR I BELIEVE THERE
WERE ALSO SOME COMMUNICATION
AND SENT TO CORRECT REGARDING
THIS ADDITION THERE WERE THERE
WERE TWO SUPPORT LETTERS THAT
WERE EMAILED TO YOU THAT WERE
EMAILED JUST NEIGHBORS ON THIS
BLOCK IN SUPPORT OF THE PROJECT
.
I WILL NOT CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION FOR YOUR
APPLICATION IS YOUR
COMMISSIONER THAT WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION.
COMMISSIONER KIYONO
I MOVE THAT
THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION FIVE TWENTY
FOUR S FOR STREET THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO CONSTRUCT A ONE HUNDRED AND
NINETY FIVE SQUARE FOOT
ADDITION AND A 15 FOOT BY
APPROXIMATELY 12 FOOT WOOD ON
THE REAR OF THE HOME AS
PROPOSED THE HOME IS OR THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS
AND RELATIONSHIP TO THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS AND
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE, TWO, FIVE, NINE
AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER.
&gt;&gt; WHY IS THERE A DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION COMMISSIONER?
WELL I THINK THIS PROJECT LIKE
I AGREE WITH WHAT I&apos;VE HEARD SO
FAR I THINK IT MEETS THE
STANDARDS AND I APPRECIATE THE
HIGH QUALITY MATERIALS THAT ARE
BEING USED ON THE PROJECT AND
CLEARLY IT WAS DESIGNED WITH A
LOT OF RESPECT FOR THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT AS WELL.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THE OTHER DISCUSSION WE&apos;RE
READY TO VOTE ALL OF THOSE IN
FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
&gt;&gt; YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE THEY MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU WILL NOW MOVE ON
TO ITEM F TWO AT TWO TWENTY S
SEVENTH STREET COMMISSIONERS TO
DO ANY OF YOU NEED A PAPER COPY
OF THE STAFF REPORT.
YOU&apos;VE GOT ELECTRONIC COPIES
BUT I WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT
COMMISSIONER WHITE HAD ONE.
LOOKS LIKE HE DOES YES.
OK ALL RIGHT WE&apos;RE GOOD TO
TWENTY SEVENTH IS IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
IT&apos;S A SINGLE STORY HOME THAT
FIRST APPEARS IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN EIGHTEEN NINETY
SIX IS NUMBER SIXTEEN S SEVENTH
STREET, THE HOME OF TONIOLI.
MEMBERS OF THE SCHNEIDER FAMILY
LIVE AT THIS ADDRESS UNTIL AT
LEAST NINETEEN FORTY.
IT FEATURES A FRONT FACING
GABLE SCULPTED ROCK FOUNDATION
AND NEARLY FULL WITH CONCRETE
BLOCK FRONT PORCH WITH WING
WALLS AND SQUARE WOULD HAVE
COLUMNS HOUSES LOCATED ON THE
WEST SIDE OF S SEVENTH SOUTH
OF WEST WASHINGTON AND NORTH
OF MURRI COURT AND IT&apos;S IN THE
FLOOD PLAIN OF AN ALLEN CREEK
TRIBUTARY.
&gt;&gt; THE APPLICANT SEEKING
APPROVAL TO CONSTRUCT A SECOND
FLOOR REAR EDITION ON TOP
OF EXISTING REAR EDITIONS AND
REPLACE A MODERN GARAGE WITH A
TALLER GARAGE IN THE SAME
FOOTPRINT.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
THIS IS THE FRONT OF TWO TWENTY
S SEVENTH OF THE COMPLICATING
FACTOR IS THAT BY VIRTUE
OF BEING IN THE FLOODPLAIN THE
HOUSE MAY BE EXPANDED THE
FOOTPRINT FOR THE STORMWATER
CODE .
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S UP OR NOWHERE ALSO
PROPOSED IN THIS APPLICATION IS
TO REPLACE THE GARAGE.
&gt;&gt; SAME DEAL THEY CAN REUSE THE
FOOTPRINT OF THE EXISTING RANGE
BUT THAT COULD ALSO COULD NOT
GET LARGER.
SO THIS SINGLE STORY ALSO HAS A
SUCCESSION OF ADDITIONS.
LET ME WALK YOU AROUND THE
FRONT.
YOU CAN TELL THE APPLICANT&apos;S
PHOTOS TAKEN IN THE SNOW VERSUS
MY PHOTOS TAKEN IN THE MUD.
THE FRONT THE HOUSE WAS BUILT
IN A COUPLE OF PHASES.
THIS LIKE SIXTEEN FOOT DEEP
FRONT SECTION WAS PROBABLY
MOVED OUT OF THIS SITE BECAUSE
IT PREDATES THE THE METHOD
OF CONSTRUCTION PREDATES THE
DATE OF THE HOUSE WHEN IT FIRST
APPEARED ON THIS LOT.
IT&apos;S A MUCH OLDER METHOD
OF CONSTRUCTION MOST LIKELY AT
THE TIME THAT IT WAS MOVED
HERE.
PART OF THIS BACK PART OF THE
HOUSE WAS ADDED ON TOP MAYBE
BACK TO ABOUT HERE.
THERE&apos;S A GOOD DIAGRAM I&apos;LL GET
TO IN THE MIDDLE IN A MINUTE
AND THIS THIS IS A KITCHEN.
&gt;&gt; THIS WING WAS ALSO ADDED AT
THAT TIME I BELIEVE THIS IS THE
KITCHEN AND THEN THERE&apos;S A
LITTLE SCREEN ROOM BACK HERE.
THESE TWO ADDITIONS THIS ONE
WITH THE SHED ROOF AND THIS ONE
OF THE GABLE OF WERE ADDED ON
LATER.
THOSE ARE THE MODERN ADDITIONS
PLUS THE SCREEN ROOM WHEN I&apos;M
TALKING ABOUT THE MODERN
ADDITIONS, THOSE ARE THE ONES
THAT I MEAN AND THAT&apos;S WHERE A
SECOND FLOOR ADDITION IS
PROPOSED TO BE ADDED MOVING
AROUND THE DRIVEWAY SIDE THE
NORTH SIDE OF THE HOUSE YOU CAN
KIND OF SEE HERE I THINK WHERE
THE LAST OF THE ADDITIONS WAS
PUT ON AND THE NINETEEN SIXTIES
GARAGE HAS A KIND OF A UNIQUE
SCULPTED BLOCK FOUNDATION
THAT&apos;S MORE MORE SCULPTED THAN
USUAL.
THAT WAS A LITTLE MORE RELIEF
AND JUST A COUPLE OF PHOTOS
OF THE EXISTING GARAGE.
THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE ALONG
THE PROPERTY LINE OK HOUSE THIS
IS THE PROPOSED SITE PLAN ON
LEFT YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE
ADDITIONS STACK UP ON THE BACK
AND WHERE THE SECOND FLOOR
ADDITIONS WOULD BE PLACED AND
HERE IS THE FOOTPRINT OF THE
GARAGE.
THIS IS A VERY GOOD DRAWING
SHOWING THE EARLIEST SECTION
OF THE HOUSE, THE FIRST EDITION
UNDER THE BACK WITH THIS THIS
KITCHEN LITTLE WING OFF TO THE
SIDE AND THEN A NEW ADDITIONS
BEHIND OUR HOUSE IS CURRENTLY
ONE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
NINETY FIVE SQUARE FEET THE PRE
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE FOOTPRINT
OR DURING THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE WAS NINE
HUNDRED AND THIRTY TWO SQUARE
FEET AND WITH AND THERE&apos;S NO
PROPOSED CHANGE TO THE
FOOTPRINT OF COURSE.
SO THE TOTAL FOOTPRINT UH AREA
OF THE ADDITIONS IS THIRTY NINE
PERCENT OF THE PRE NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE FOOTPRINT FOR THE
FLOOR AREA THE PRE NINETEEN
FORTY FIVE FLOOR AREA WAS THE
SAME 932 SQUARE FEET AND THE
ADDITIONS RIGHT NOW ADD THREE
HUNDRED AND SIXTY THREE SQUARE
FEET AND THE PROPOSED ADDITIONS
ADD TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY SIX
SQUARE FEET FOR A TOTAL
INCREASE OF 650 NINE WHICH IS
SEVENTY POINT SEVEN OF THE PRE
NINETEEN FORTY FIVE STRUCTURE
AND UNFORTUNATELY THAT DOES
SIGNIFICANTLY EXCEED THE LOCAL
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINE THAT SAYS THE
ADDITIONS SHOULD NOT EXCEED
FIFTY PERCENT OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING&apos;S TOTAL FLOOR AREA.
LET&apos;S GO THROUGH THE FLOOR.
PLANS ARE IN THE PACKET.
THEY&apos;RE ALWAYS HELPFUL TO
UNDERSTAND WHAT&apos;S GOING ON.
THIS IS A FRONT ELEVATION.
&gt;&gt; UM, YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE&apos;S
A LOT OF ROOM IN THIS ATTIC SO
WE BRIEFLY DISCUSSED BUT IT&apos;S
JUST NOT THAT USEFUL AS A
FINISHED SPACE BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
JUST NOT ENOUGH OF IT AND IT&apos;S
NOT TALL ENOUGH.
YOU CAN SEE THE KITCHEN WHEN
GOING OFF TO SIDE HERE ALL
OF THE EXISTING DOORS AND
WINDOWS ON THE EXISTING HOUSE
ARE PROPOSED TO STAY BACK HERE
YOU CAN SEE THE KITCHEN WAYING
AND THIS MUST BE ONE OF THE
ADDITIONS AND THIS IS THE THE
SHELL ROOF EDITION.
THIS IS THE FARTHER ONE.
THIS IS ONE THE CENTER AND THE
SCREEN ROOM.
IT&apos;S GOT A COUPLE OF IT&apos;S GOT A
LITTLE DECK HERE ON THE SIDE
THAT WOULD REMAIN AND ON THE
BACK AND HERE&apos;S THE DRIVEWAY
SIDE AS IT EXISTS TODAY THERE&apos;S
A SEVERE DROP OFF HERE.
THE FLOOD THE BASE FLOOD
ELEVATION IS AT ABOUT SIX FEET
OF THE GARAGE WHICH I BELIEVE
SITS LOWER DOWN HERE.
SO IT IS IT IS A SUBSTANTIAL
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION REVISED
FLOOR PLAN THIS IS LET&apos;S SEE
BACK HERE IS WHERE THE SCREENED
PORCH IS NOW THAT WOULD BE
CONVERTED INTO A STAIRWELL AND
A LITTLE MUDROOM ADDITION ON
THE BACK OF THE KITCHEN OR
MAYBE THIS IS A TABLE I&apos;M NOT
SURE WHICH.
AND HERE YOU CAN SEE A ROOF
PLAN SHOWING WHERE A NEW
ADDITION FALLS SITS ON TOP
OF THOSE RARE ADDITIONS AS A
BEDROOM ABATH A CLOSET AND
HERE&apos;S A STAIRWELL TUCKED INTO
THE CORNER FROM THE FRONT YOU
CAN SEE THAT THE NEW ROOF THE
THE THE ARCHITECT DREW THIS UP
WITH BOTH A FRONT FACING GABLE
AND SIDE FACING TABLES LIKE YOU
SEE HERE AND THE FRONT FACING
TABLE JUST LOOKED MUCH MORE
MASSIVE THAN THIS DRAWING AND I
THINK THEY WISELY WENT WITH THE
SIDE FACING TABLES.
THERE ARE YOU CAN SEE IT&apos;S A
SORT OF A SERIES OF STEPS DOWN
HERE THAT IS TO ACCOMMODATE THE
STAIR GOING UP AND YOU CAN ALSO
SEE THE NEW GARAGE HERE IN THE
BACKGROUND.
UNFORTUNATELY OUR SCREENS THAT
WE ARE LOOKING AT UP HERE MAKE
EVERYTHING SQUISHED AND A
LITTLE TALLER AND POINTIER
LOOKING UNNECESSARY.
SO KEEP THAT IN MIND WHEN
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING AT THESE AND THE
PAPER COPIES AND THE ELECTRONIC
COPIES ARE BETTER VERSION THAN
THESE LITTLE SCREENS.
BUT HERE WE HAVE THE SOUTH SIDE
ELEVATION TO GABLE&apos;S THREE
GABLES AND A LITTLE BIT
OF INFILL ROOF HERE TO TIE
EVERYTHING TOGETHER THIS THIS
GOES FROM A SHED TO A HIP OVER
THE KITCHEN.
THIS IS THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
WE SEE THE GARAGE ON THE LEFT
THERE&apos;S A NEW PERSON DOOR DOWN
HERE AND MAYBE THAT&apos;S AN
EXISTING I&apos;M NOT SURE BUT
THERE&apos;S A NEW PERSON DOOR HERE
ON THE SIDE WHERE THIS GUY IS
GOING IN CLOUD ONE OVER ONE
WINDOWS ARE PROPOSED.
THERE&apos;S THAT NEW DOOR AND
THAT&apos;S THE THAT WAS THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE.
THE GARAGE IS UNIQUE AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S A I THINK A GREAT SOLUTION
TO A PROBLEM OF TRYING TO PUT A
NEW BUILDING UP IN A FLOODWAY.
SO IN THE PAST WE&apos;VE HAD A FEW
GARAGES COME THROUGH WHERE THEY
HAVE TO HAVE FLOOD GATES.
THEY USUALLY TAKE UP THE BOTTOM
LIKE TWO FEET HERE AND AND THEY
OPEN
WHEN WATER PASSES THROUGH
AND LET THE THE WATER FLOW
THROUGH THE FLOW FREELY THROUGH
THE BUILDING AND IN THIS CASE
THEY PROPOSED TO USE ONE BY
EIGHT VERTICAL BOARDS WITH WITH
THREE THREE AND A QUARTER THREE
AND A HALF INCHES IN BETWEEN.
SO IT&apos;S ESSENTIALLY MORE LIKE
OPEN LIKE A FENCE WOULD BE
BETTER TO ALLOW THE WATER TO
PASS THROUGH AND YOU DON&apos;T HAVE
TO DEAL WITH THE THE THE
FLOODGATES THAT OPEN AND CLOSE
AND IT ALSO KEEPS CRITTERS OUT
WHICH IS PROBABLY A BIG
ADVANTAGE AND THE FRONT
ELEVATION THE WHOLE THING IS
CLAD IN BOARD AND BATON AND THE
SECOND FLOOR IS BORN IN BATON
WHICH IS ALSO VERY COMPATIBLE
WITH THE VERY VERTICAL LOOKING
FIRST FLOOR AND THESE ARE
BREAKAWAY FLOOD DOORS.
&gt;&gt; SO IF A FLOOD DID RUSH
THROUGH HERE, THESE DOORS ARE
DESIGNED TO GET OUT OF THE WAY
.
ALL RIGHT.
THERE&apos;S A PERSON DOOR HERE ON
THE BACK OF THE GARAGE WITH A
HALF STAIRCASE GOING UP AND
THEN THERE MUST BE ANOTHER HALF
STAIRCASE INSIDE TO GET UP TO A
FINISHED ROOM ON THE SECOND
FLOOR
FROM THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS.
I THINK I READ ALL THESE TO YOU
ALREADY.
I READ YOU ONE AND TWO AND NINE
AND TEN FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE NOT RECOMMENDED
REMOVING OR RADICALLY CHANGING
BUILDINGS AND THEIR FEATURES OR
SITE FEATURES WHICH ARE
IMPORTANT TO DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
APPROPRIATE TO PLACE A NEW
EDITION ON A NON CHARACTER
DEFINING OR INCONSPICUOUS
ELEVATION AND LIMITING THE SIZE
AND SCALE IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC PROPERTY ALSO
PLACING NEW WALLS IN A
DIFFERENT PLANE FROM THE
HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC.
IT&apos;S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT
THE SIZE AND SCALE OF THE
ADDITIONS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
IT DOES NOT DIMINISH OR
VISUALLY OVERPOWER THE BUILDING
OR THE DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; THE ADDITIONS FOOTPRINT
SHOULD EXCEED NEITHER HALF
OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING&apos;S
FOOTPRINT NOR HALF OF THE
ORIGINAL BUILDINGS TOTAL FLOOR
AREA AND IT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE
TO DESIGN AN ADDITION THAT
OVERPOWERS OR DRAMATICALLY
ALTERS THE ORIGINAL BUILDING
THROUGH SIZE, HEIGHT OR
MATERIALS.
ALL RIGHT, LET ME GET YOU BACK
UP TO THE DRAWINGS SO STEPH
DOES HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
TOTAL FLOOR AREA INCREASE AND
THE NECESSARY HEIGHT OF THE
ADDITION.
I DO APPRECIATE THAT THE
ARCHITECT TRIED VALIANTLY TO
GET THIS AS LOW AS POSSIBLE BUT
I DO BELIEVE AT THE HEIGHT AND
THE FLOOR AREA ARE CONTRARY TO
SEVERAL OF THE GUIDELINES THAT
I&apos;VE READ TO YOU AND OTHERS
THAT ARE IN THE STAFF REPORT I
HAVE I HAVE SUGGESTED TWO
DIFFERENT MOTIONS IF YOU WANT
TO USE THEM.
ONE IS FOR THE ADDITION AND ONE
IS FOR THE GARAGE IN CASE YOU
WANT TO CONSIDER THEM
SEPARATELY AND ONE AT A TIME.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S IT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. MYSELF ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE.
&gt;&gt; I CAN START THIS ONE UP.
CAN YOU GO BACK TO THE PHOTOS,
MR. UM SO I THINK THE PHOTOS
ARE PRETTY CLEAR DEPICTING
MAYBE IS THERE ONE FROM THE THE
FRONT TOWARD THE THE STREET THE
HOUSE IS PAINTED IT&apos;S IN THE
FLOOD PLAIN SO IT ACTUALLY THIS
IS IT SITS RELATIVELY LOW
ESPECIALLY BEING A SINGLE STORY
HOME.
THERE IS ANOTHER HOUSE THAT&apos;S
ADJACENT THAT&apos;S ONE AND A HALF
TO TWO STOREYS THAT&apos;S SLIGHTLY
TALLER AND THEN THERE&apos;S A
APARTMENT BUILDING IMMEDIATELY
ON THE NORTH THIS THAT IS MUCH
MORE MODERN AND CHARACTERS
DEFINITELY NOT HISTORIC IN
NATURE.
IT IS PRETTY VISIBLE AS YOU
DRIVE BY THE WAY ON SEVENTH OR
WALKING THROUGH YOU DO SEE THE
EXTENT OF THE HOUSE ALL THE WAY
BACK UP TO THE GARAGE AND SOME
OF THE ADDITIONS THAT ARE BACK
THERE UM I THINK THE PHOTOS
FROM THE REAR ARE PRETTY CLEAR
TO SHOW HOW IT YOU KNOW, THE
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT MISHMASH
IN THE BACK.
SO THAT A LOT IS ACTUALLY
REALLY, REALLY DEEP AND LOW.
SO I THINK THERE&apos;S SOME IT&apos;S AN
INTERESTING FEATURE AND I THINK
CONCEPT TO WORK WITH.
WE DID KIND OF LOOK TO SEE
WHERE THAT EXACT UM DISTINCTION
WAS BETWEEN EXISTING AND NEW ON
THE DRIVEWAY SIDE WHERE THEY&apos;RE
SHOWING THE ADDITIONS TO MOVE
TO THE TWO STOREY PORTION THAT
IS NOT THE ORIGINAL.
SO THEY THEY&apos;VE STAYED OUT
OF THE ORIGINAL FOOTPRINT
OF THE HOUSE THAT THAT&apos;S
APPRECIATED.
UM, I I&apos;M ALSO MIXED ON THIS
ONE.
I DO HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
INCREASE IN FLOOR AREA AND THE
VARIOUS I UNDERSTAND THE
CONSTRAINTS FOR THE FOOTPRINT.
I THINK IT&apos;S AN INTERESTING
CONCEPT AND I DO THINK THE
ADDITION IS PUSHED EXTREMELY
FAR BACK BUT THERE IS A LOT
OF VISIBILITY BECAUSE THE HOUSE
AND THE ROOFLINE ARE SO LOW.
&gt;&gt; UM I DON&apos;T KNOW IF I HAVE
ANYTHING ELSE I NOT A WHOLE LOT
MORE TO ADD JUST MAYBE MORE
ABOUT THE CONTEXT.
BUT IT IS INTERESTING THAT YOU
KNOW, THIS WAS MOVED FROM
ANOTHER LOCATION.
SO THE MOST HISTORIC PORTION
OF THIS HOME, YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S IN
A DIFFERENT CONTEXT.
IT&apos;S NOT LIKE IT&apos;S NEIGHBORS.
SO THE DISTRICT THAT IT&apos;S IN IN
A SENSE AND BEYOND IT&apos;S NORTH
AND SOUTH IMMEDIATE NEIGHBORS,
ALL THE OTHER HOMES ARE EVEN IF
THEY WERE ALL ON LEVEL GROUND
PLAIN THEY&apos;D BE SIGNIFICANTLY
SIGNIFICANTLY TALLER THAN THIS
HOME.
IT&apos;S REALLY OUR NEIGHBORS ARE
ALSO QUITE TALLER.
SO YOU KNOW, EVEN EVEN WITH THE
PROPOSED ADDITIONS IT WOULD
STILL BE SHORTER THAN ITS
NEIGHBORS.
BUT YEAH, I AGREE WITH THE
OTHER COMMENTS THAT WERE MADE.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER.
UH, WITH THE APPLICANT PLEASE
STEP FORWARD AND STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE UP
TO FIVE MINUTES TO SPEAK IF YOU
HAVE ANYTHING YOU&apos;D LIKE TO ADD
TO THE STAFF REPORT A REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT.
OKAY, I AM CARL HUETER AND I
HAVE BEEN COMING IN FRONT
OF THIS COMMISSION SINCE
NINETEEN SEVENTY EIGHT FROM AND
I DON&apos;T COME HERE VERY OFTEN
BECAUSE I USUALLY WORK WITH AND
TRY AND GET THINGS DONE WITHOUT
HIM NEEDING GOOD HELP AND I&apos;D
LIKE TO SAY NO IN THE FORTY
SOME YEARS I&apos;VE BEEN PRACTICING
THIS IS PROBABLY ONE OF MY MORE
DIFFICULT ONES TO DO AS FAR AS
WE UNDERSTAND IN 1972 WHEN THE
OVERSIGHT HISTORIC DISTRICT WAS
CREATED , FLOODPLAINS AND
FLOODWAYS WERE NOT SIGNIFICANT
FEATURES IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF ANN ARBOR.
NOW THEY&apos;RE PARAMOUNT AND THIS
PROJECT THERE&apos;S DIFFERENT
FLOODPLAIN LEVELS.
I READ ONE OF THEM HAD SAID
SEVEN FOOT NINE YOU KNOW THE
TIP OF MY FINGERS OH THAT&apos;S THE
ENTIRE PROPERTY UNDERWATER TO A
DEPTH OF SEVEN FOOT NINE INCHES
AND AND BECAUSE OF THAT A LOT
OF TIMES LIKE THE PREVIOUS
SUBMISSION WE WOULD SEEK TO ADD
UNDER THE REAR OF THE PROPERTY
AND HIDE THE NEW STRUCTURE.
BUT THAT&apos;S NOT A OPPORTUNITY
THAT&apos;S AVAILABLE TO US BECAUSE
OF THE FEMA REGULATION.
UM, THE IT FOR ME MY STRUCTURAL
BACKGROUND IT WAS FUN HOUSE TO
GO THROUGH BECAUSE THERE&apos;S SO
MANY IT&apos;S LIKE A HISTORY
OF FRAMING FROM TIMBER FRAMING
TO SIGN AND TIMBER FRAME BEFORE
WHERE NAILS WERE AND THEN LATER
ON THOSE LITTLE ODD LITTLE
ADDITIONS ON THE BACK UM THE
THE FIRST PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY
AND HARDSHIP THAT WE HAVE IT&apos;S
NOT SELF IMPOSED IS IS THE
FLOODPLAIN ISSUE AND THE SECOND
ONE IS THE THE HOUSE IS THE
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE IS VERY
SMALL AND THAT SEVENTY YEARS
AGO SOME TEN YEARS AFTER THE
CUTOFF DATE I WAS AT NINETEEN
FORTY IN NINETEEN FORTY FIVE
FORTY FOUR WAS THE LAST YEAR.
FORTY FOUR WAS THE LAST YEAR SO
YOU KNOW SIX OR SEVEN YEARS
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY FOUR FIFTY
FIFTY ONE WAS ADDITION STARTING
TO POP ON AND THOSE ARE FROM
SEVENTY YEARS AGO AND THEY&apos;RE
CONTRIBUTING TO DIMINISH THAT
THAT FIFTY PERCENT AREA THAT
WE&apos;RE ALLOWED AND AS I LOOKED
AT THE HISTORY OF THE HOUSE YOU
KNOW EVERY FIFTY OR SIXTY YEARS
OR SO SOMEONE EXPAND THE HOUSE
BY ONE TIME ONE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE PERCENT AND FORTY
PERCENT AND NOW SEVENTY YEARS
LATER WE WANT TO ADD ANOTHER
THIRTY THIRTY SIX THIRTY NINE
PERCENT OF THE HOUSE BECAUSE
EVERY TIME WHAT WAS DONE WAS
DONE FOR THE CURRENT PROPERTY
OWNER TO MEET THE DEMANDS
OF THE EXISTING AT THAT TIME
CONTEMPORARY TIMES THAT THEY
NEEDED I REALLY TRIED TO WORK
VERY HARD MAKING THAT ADDITION
AS SMALL AS POSSIBLE FIVE FOOT
SIX PLATE HIGH TECH IN THE REST
OF THE ALL THE ROOMS UNDER THE
ROOF HAVING THE ROOF SLOPED
BACK FROM THE STREET WHICH IS A
TYPICAL WAY TO MAKE A HOUSING
AND WHEREVER I COULD I I CUT
DOWN THE RIDGELINE AGAIN TO
MITIGATE THAT.
MAY I SEE THE GARAGE IS IN VERY
POOR CONDITION.
THE FOUNDATION IS HEAVING AND
BREAKING IT APART AND IT NEEDS
REPLACED AND WE WOULD LIKE TO
GET SOME SPACE IN THE ATTIC
OF THE GARAGE IN ORDER TO HAVE
A STUDIO OFFICE AREA AND THAT
SPACE HAS TO BE ABOVE ABOVE THE
FLOOD PLAIN FLOOD PLAIN HEIGHT
.
SO IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT TALLER BUT
AS YOU DRIVE AROUND THE
OVERSIDE THERE ARE ANY NUMBER
OF CARRIAGE AND CARRIAGE BARNS
IN THE BACKS OF THE BUILDINGS
THAT ARE ONE AND A HALF TWO
STORIES HIGH AND BECAUSE THE
NEW STRUCTURE WE&apos;RE PROPOSING
IS A LITTLE TALLER, IT SEEMS TO
FIT WELL WITH THAT THAT HEIGHT
IS NEGOTIABLE.
I APPRECIATE
THE COMMENTS FROM
JESSICA WHOSE LAST NAME I CAN&apos;T
ABOUT THE FACT AS YOU GO
THROUGH THE NEIGHBORHOOD MOST
OF THE OVERSIDE HOMES DEVELOPED
ARE ONE AND A HALF TWO STOREY
HOUSES, SOME WITH A THIRD STORY
ATTIC SPACE AND THIS IS A SMALL
HOUSE CREATED AT A DIFFERENT
PERIOD OF TIME THAN THOSE HOMES
AROUND IT.
THE HOUSES BEHIND THIS ONE SIT
ON A HILLSIDE SO THEY HAVE A
THREE STOREY FACE TOWARDS THIS
HOUSE THAT&apos;S ONLY ONE STORY AND
IT&apos;S JUST YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S THE
REQUIREMENTS OF THE HISTORIC
STANDARDS, THE LIMITS ARE, YOU
KNOW, THE RULES AND REGULATIONS
THAT ARE FORGED TO FIT THE
GENERAL IN MOST CASES.
YET THERE ARE UNIQUE CONDITIONS
AND PRACTICAL HARDSHIPS AND I
AS I LOOK AT THIS, THIS IS HOW
IT HAS THAT CRITERIA THAT I
KNOW THAT YOU&apos;RE ALL GOING TO
SET YOUR GOOD MINDS TO AND HELP
US FIND A SOLUTION FOR THIS
COUPLE NEWLY MOVED FROM GHANA
TO COME IN ANN ARBOR AND
STARTING THEIR NEW FAMILY AND
LIVE HERE HOPES TO BE ABLE TO
EXPAND IT A LITTLE BIT MORE SO
THAN THEIR EXPANDING FAMILY
HAVE A PLACE TO LIVE IN.
ANN FOR THE NEXT 15 20 YEARS.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;M HERE TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION CAN ASSIST YOU IN ANY
QUESTIONS FOR MR. DENHA.
NO NO QUESTIONS.
I DO HAVE ONE IF YOU COULD.
I MEAN I THINK YOU TOUCHED ON A
LITTLE BIT BUT CAN YOU JUST
MAYBE TALK ABOUT THE THE HEIGHT
IN RELATION TO FOUR AREA
INCREASE AND THE NEED AND HOW
THAT THAT&apos;S PLAYING IT IS THAT
PLAYING INTO THE HEIGHT OVERALL
HEIGHT OF THE THE ADDITION.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO THE PLAYHOUSE IS FIVE FOOT
SIX.
IT&apos;S ABOUT AT THE PEAK OF THE
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE.
RICH IT&apos;S A VERY FLAT ROOF.
I I THINK IT&apos;S LESS THAN THREE
TWELVE AND SO I I I WANTED THAT
WALL TO BE THERE FOR THE OLD
STRUCTURE I BOUGHT INTO AND
THEN IMMEDIATELY AT THAT POINT
THE ROOF IS GOING UP AND AWAY
FROM THE EXISTING CONTRIBUTING
STRUCTURE.
I THINK THAT NEW ROOF IS ABOUT
FORTY FEET BACK FROM THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN WE HAVE A
MODEST TEN BY 12 BEDROOM, A
VERY SMALL SIX BY SIX CLOSET
AND A LITTLE TINY BATHROOM
TUCKED IN UNDER THOSE ROOF
PLATES.
SO EVERYTHING&apos;S UNDER THE ROOF
THE KITCHEN I WANT TO POINT OUT
IS ONLY SIX FOOT EIGHT INCHES
TALL, YOU KNOW, AND IT&apos;S NOT A
COLD HABITABLE SPACE AND WE
WANT TO PULL THAT ROOF UP TO
GET MORE SPACE IN THE REST
OF THE ROOMS IN THE EXISTING
HOUSE ARE SEVEN FOOT FOUR SEVEN
FOOT SIX AND I ALSO AND THEN
I&apos;M DOING ALL THE WORK WE WANT
TO GET HER TO THAT CEMENT AS
OPPOSED TO SIGNING AND ONE SETS
UNDERTAKEN WE CAN DISCOVER WHAT
THE THE ORIGINAL SIDING WAS ON
THE HOUSE AND AS YOU LOOKED
THAT RELEVATION THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S
LIKE FOUR DISTINCT DIFFERENT
SIDE AND DIFFERENT ADDITIONS ON
AND I WANTED TO KNIT THAT ALL
TOGETHER TO MAKE IT WHOLE
STRUCTURE THAT WOULD FIT IN
WITH THE CHARACTER THEY DID
ANSWER QUESTIONS.
OK, THANK YOU.
ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS&apos;?
I HAD ONE BUT IT WAS JUST
ANSWERED BY KOROL.
I WAS WONDERING HOW FAR BACK
THAT THE EVE OF THE ADDITION IS
THAT THAT BUT THE REAR OF THE
THE THE EXISTING YOU SAID FORTY
FEET IS THAT CORRECT.
&gt;&gt; GO BACK UP TO EIGHTEEN
THIRTY FOUR IS THE FRONT PORCH
IT&apos;S FORTY TWO BACK FROM THE
PORCH FORTY TWO FOOT THIRTY I&apos;M
SORRY I&apos;M EXCUSE ME I&apos;M SORRY
THAT&apos;S I WAS REPEATING YOU
THAT&apos;S OK.
YEAH YEAH FROM THE FRONT OF THE
PORCH IT&apos;S WHATEVER JUST FORTY
TWO FEET BACK OK OK RIGHT NOW
OPEN THIS REPUBLICAN THIS IF
YOU JUST STATE YOUR NAME FOR
THE RECORD I&apos;M COMING
NEWS CONFERENCE WELL AND I&apos;M
FROM UP NORTH I JUST WANTED TO
SAY I WAS LIVING IN ANN ARBOR
FOR MY UNDERGRAD AND MY MEDICAL
TRAINING HERE SINCE 2004 AND
LEFT FOR A FEW YEARS AND MET
KELVIN AND WE ACTUALLY I
RETURNED DURING THE PANDEMIC
AND WE WERE APART FOR QUITE A
FEW MONTHS AND I WAS HERE DOING
SOME WORK AND WE ACTUALLY LIVED
ON 7TH STREET WHEN HE CAME
AFTER WE WERE ALLOWED TO KIND
OF COME BACK TOGETHER AFTER THE
PANDEMIC AND THIS OPPORTUNITY
KIND OF CAME UP SHORTLY AFTER
AND WE&apos;RE REALLY EXCITED TO BE
ABLE TO LIVE ON THE STREET AND
ENJOY THE GOD.
HE&apos;S BEING QUITE MODEST IN THAT
SHE CAME BACK BECAUSE OF THE
CALL FOR DOCTORS.
YOU&apos;RE INDEPENDENT AND SO
BASICALLY SIX MONTHS SINCE SHE
LEFT HONEYMOON TO COME BACK
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT MEANS A LOT
TO ME AND AND AND YOU KNOW AND
WE FELL IN LOVE WITH THAT
OF THE STREET AND BECAUSE WE
WERE JUST A BLOCK AND A HALF
UP, WE WERE, YOU KNOW, WALKING
IN THAT POCKET AND TRYING TO
RUN AS WELL.
BUT THAT DIDN&apos;T HAPPEN AS MUCH
.
AND BUT I THINK THAT THE THING
TO SAY IS THAT THE GARAGE IS
REALLY IMPORTANT FOR US.
AS YOU CAN TELL FROM MY ACCENT,
I&apos;M NOT FROM AROUND HERE.
OUR FAMILY LIVES ALL AROUND THE
WORLD AND HAVING THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM TO COME
AND VISIT AND HAVE A PLACE TO
EXPLORE MICHIGAN AND STAY WITH
US AND MY PARENTS ARE VERY KEEN
TO COME AND GET TO THE NINE
MONTH OLD GRANDSON MUCH BETTER
AND HAVING A PLACE WHERE WE CAN
HAVE IS REALLY, REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR US.
AND I THINK THE OTHER THING TO
SAY IS THAT I GREW UP IN LONDON
AND THE ARCHITECTURE IS PART
OF THE FABRIC AND THE CULTURE
THAT WE HAVE THERE.
THE SCHOOL I WENT TO WAS
FOUNDED IN FIFTEEN SEVENTY
THREE AND THE BUILDING I WAS IN
SCHOOL FOR SEVEN YEARS SIXTEEN
NINETY AND SO THE REASON WE&apos;VE
CHOSEN CARL AND ALSO DAVID I&apos;LL
BUILD IS BECAUSE WE WANTED TO
BE RESPECTFUL TO THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION.
WE WANTED TO CONTRIBUTE TO THAT
AND THE HOUSE IS A LITTLE
AJUNKIE AND NEEDS SOME TLC AND
I THINK THAT THE REASON WE WON
THE BID ACTUALLY WAS BECAUSE NO
ONE ELSE WANTED THE ONLY PEOPLE
THAT WANTED IT WERE INVESTORS.
THEY WERE GOING TO PUT IT INTO
RENTAL AND THE OTHER SORT
OF FAMILIES WHO WERE INTERESTED
AND SAID IT WAS TOO MUCH WORK
AND THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
BUT WE DO WANT TO RESTORE IT TO
WHAT WE HOPE WAS ITS FORMER
GLORY AND CONTRIBUTE POSITIVELY
TO THE OTHER SIDE.
THANK YOU FOR THIS COMPANY.
WE THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
HAVING US.
THANK YOU.
OPENNESS TO PUBLIC HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE APPLICATION
220 S7 STREET.
&gt;&gt; KRISTEN, DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS OR CALLERS?
SO I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THE APPLICATION?
WE HAVE COMMISSIONER ROCKLIN
SHALL I DO THE GARAGE FIRST?
WHICH WOULD YOU LIKE FOR?
I&apos;LL DO THEM SEPARATELY BUT DO
YOU I DON&apos;T HAVE A PREFERENCE
IF YOU HAVE A PREFERENCE.
&gt;&gt; WELL, OK, LOOKING FOR IT.
&gt;&gt; LET ME SEE WHAT THE I&apos;LL DO
THE GARAGE FIRST.
OK
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS AND
ISSUE WHY DOES IT SAY APPROVED
WITH CONDITIONS ARE THERE
CONDITIONS FOR THE GARAGE.
NO NO.
OH JUST THAT MAYBE THERE ARE
SOMETHING ABOUT JUST THAT I
NEEDED MORE INFORMATION ON THE
DOOR THE PERSON DOOR THAT
PERSON.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I WILL KEEP THAT IN
THERE THEN I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION APPROVED WITH
CONDITIONS AND ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT 220 S
7TH STREET A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO REPLACE A
MODERN GARAGE WITH THE TALLER
GARAGE IN THE SAME FOOTPRINT ON
THE CONDITION THAT THE DOOR
DETAILS ARE REVIEWED BY STAFF
IN A SEPARATE APPLICATION AS A
CONDITION THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT MATERIALS AND
RELATIONSHIP THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS ONE TO NINE AND TEN
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE
SUPPORT THAT COMMISSIONER
UNCLAD SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WRIGHT IS A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION ANYONE SEEKING
I&apos;M SURE
THERE&apos;S A DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
YOU&apos;RE LOOKING THIS ELEVATION
ELEVATION IT DOESN&apos;T REALLY
GIVE YOU THE FEEL THAT YOU&apos;LL
HAVE THAT RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
SO THE GROUND IS PRETTY FAR
BACK IN THE OVERALL SCHEME
OF THE HOUSE.
&gt;&gt; IT SITS BACK FROM THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO SAY IT DOESN&apos;T QUITE
CLEAR ALL THE ADDITIONS IT&apos;S
GOT.
IT&apos;S TEN FEET WHERE WE TAKE THE
GARAGE DOWN.
THE BUILDING CODE SAYS WE CAN&apos;T
REBUILD IT IN EXACTLY WHERE IT
IS SO WE HAVE TO PUSH IT BACK A
THE LESS BE TEN FEET AWAY FROM
THE EXISTING HOUSE.
SO IT&apos;S BEEN FOR BACK ON THE
AND THE SITE PLAN I SHOW THAT
TEN FOOT DIMENSIONED ON THE
PROPOSED SITE AND IT LOOKS LIKE
THERE&apos;S A DIAGONAL CONVENTION.
YES THAT&apos;S CORRECT.
OK SO IT&apos;S ACTUALLY EVEN A
LITTLE FURTHER FROM THE IN THE
REAR OF THE IT&apos;S BERGENHEIM.
YES.
YES OK
, I&apos;M JUST LOOKING AT
SOME GUIDELINES THAT I
REFERENCED I THINK AND I CAN
STATE I GUESS A COUPLE THE
GROUND IS IS QUITE A WAYS BACK
FROM FROM THE STREET AND
THEY&apos;RE IT BEING SET BACK FROM
THE HOUSE I THINK IS HELPFUL.
I THINK WE&apos;VE TALKED A LITTLE
BIT ABOUT, YOU KNOW, THE SITE
ITSELF UM BEING PRETTY LOW AND
DEPRESSED FROM THE ROAD AND IT
ACTUALLY DIPS IN ELEVATION AS
YOU AS YOU GO FURTHER BACK.
UM, I THINK THE ONLY CONCERN I
IS IS THE HEIGHT IN RELATION TO
THE REST OF THE PROJECT.
UM, DEPENDING ON WHAT HAPPENS
WITH THAT MOTION IS IS THERE AN
ISSUE WITH THE HEIGHT OK, ARE
YOU RECOMMENDING WE GO TO
DISCUSS THE THE ADDITIONS FIRST
LET&apos;S LET&apos;S CAN WE HOLD AND OR
POSTPONE THIS UNTIL I DIDN&apos;T I
DIDN&apos;T THINK THAT THROUGH JUST
HOLD OFF ON THIS YOU CAN NOW
MAKE THE MOTION FOR THE
ADDITIONS WE CAN COME BACK TO
THE GARAGE.
THAT&apos;S FINE.
GREAT LET&apos;S DO IT ONE MOMENT
PLEASE.
THERE IT IS.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TWO TWENTY SOUTH
SEVEN STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO CONSTRUCT
A SECOND FLOOR REAR EDITION ON
TOP OF EXISTING MODERN REAR
EDITIONS ON THE FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS THAT THE CLABBERED
SIDING IS WOOD OR TISH&apos;S WITH
THIS EXPOSURE SIMILAR TO THE
LAMP SIDING IN THE HOUSE&apos;S
FRONT ABLE AND THAT THE
ADDITIONS WINDOWS AND DOORS ARE
REVIEWED BY STAFF IN A SEPARATE
APPLICATION AS A CONDITION.
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE IN
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
MATERIALS IN RELATIONSHIP TO
THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS A
KEY BANABA HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR ADDITIONS
AND A SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR REHABILITATE
HISTORIC BUILDINGS IN
PARTICULAR STANDARDS ONE TO
NINE AND TEN AND THE GUIDELINES
FOR ADDITIONS AND BUILDING SITE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
ROCKLIN SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITE THERE ARE
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION.
ANYONE WANTS TO JUMP FIRST TIME
THIS IS GENERAL I MEAN JUST MY
OPINION AND THAT FOR ME I CAN&apos;T
HEAR YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY.
I MEAN YES IT IS MY GENERAL
OPINION NOT HAVING BEEN TO THE
SITE.
I JUST THINK THAT THE PROJECT
AS A WHOLE LIKE WHEN YOU
COMBINE THIS HIGHER GARAGE IN
THIS HIGH ADDITION, THE
CUMULATIVE IMPACT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
GOING TO END UP HAVING A KIND
OF A DRASTIC CHANGE TO LOOK AT
THE FEEL OF THIS SITE.
SO I UNDERSTAND THE IDEA
OF LIKE APPROVED KRUTCH FIRST
TO ME THIS THE PROJECT TOTAL
WOULD HAVE TO HAVE A REALLY
KIND DRASTIC IMPACT ON THE SITE
AS A WHOLE.
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW IF I CAN
SUPPORT BOTH THE GARAGE AND ED.
PERHAPS I CAN SUPPORT JUST THE
GARAGE AT THIS POINT BUT
CERTAINLY NOT BOTH.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF WHERE I&apos;M
THINKING.
COMMISSIONER, WHY DID YOU.
WELL, ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
THAT STRUCTURE IS THE MOST PART
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND
EVERYTHING SURROUNDING THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD IS LARGER.
THERE IS AN APARTMENT BUILDING
THAT&apos;S OUT THERE THAT IS TALLER
THAN THAT BUILDING IS ON THE
BACK.
IT GOES UP A HILL.
SO WHATEVER IS THERE THEY&apos;RE
LOOKING DOWN ON THE PROPERTY.
IT&apos;S THERE AND GOING THE OTHER
WAY THERE THE LOWER SO WHATEVER
THEY&apos;RE BUILDING THERE NO ONE
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD IS GOING TO
BE LOOKING UP.
THEY&apos;RE ALL DOWN
.
I THERE&apos;S NO I&apos;M DEFINITELY
STRUGGLING HERE AS WE ALL SEEM
TO BE.
THE PROJECT IS VERY WELL
THOUGHT OUT AND DETAILED.
THE DESIGN IS JUST SO THOROUGH
AND OBVIOUSLY YOU KNOW, VERY
INTELLIGENT AND THOUGHTFUL AND
THEN THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S THE
STANDARDS THAT SAY THAT FIFTY
PERCENT IS THE MAXIMUM AND THAT
YOU SHOULDN&apos;T OVERPOWER THE
HISTORIC PORTION OF THE HOUSE
THEN YOU HAVE THE FACT
COMMISSIONER WHITE JUST BROUGHT
UP WHERE THIS IS A PARTICULAR
SITUATION IN A FLOOD PLAIN YOU
CANNOT DO THAT.
THE REAR EDITION THAT WE&apos;VE
SEEN OTHER LET&apos;S SAY SHORT
STATURED HOMES ACCOMPLISHED
WITH A VERY LARGE BACKYARD AND
MAYBE A VERY LARGE WELL A FIFTY
PERCENT ONE STOREY EDITION OR
MAYBE A SIXTY PERCENT ONE
STOREY EDITION OR SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
THAT&apos;S NOT AVAILABLE HERE.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT I&apos;M STRUGGLING
WITH ANYONE ELSE I AGREE IT&apos;S
UM IT&apos;S A HEAD SCRATCHER
BECAUSE YOU KNOW THERE&apos;S
THERE&apos;S THE LETTER OF THE THE
GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS AND
THEN YOU KNOW THERE&apos;S HOW BEST
CAN THEY MEET THE INTENT AND
AND THE GOALS OF IT WITH SUCH A
UNIQUE CASE RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S INTERESTING TO HEAR THE
APPLICANT MENTIONED THAT WHEN
THEY WERE BIDDING ON THE HOME
THAT YOU KNOW, ALL OTHER VIABLE
OPTIONS FOR BIDDERS WERE RENTAL
TO BE RENTAL PROPERTIES AND IS
THAT WHAT WE WANT TO PROMOTE
VERSUS A HOMEOWNER IS GOING TO
INVEST IN THE PROPERTY AND CARE
FOR IT IN A WAY THAT THEIR
NEIGHBORS PRESUMABLY ARE SO
THAT THAT FOR ME AN INTERESTING
LAYER AS WELL.
YOU KNOW THAT THAT OTHER FACTOR
I YEAH.
ON PAPER YOU KNOW IT SEEMS YEAH
THERE ARE CERTAIN GUIDELINES
THAT IT DOESN&apos;T MEET BUT I
THINK THERE&apos;S THERE&apos;S VALUE
THERE TO BE CONSIDERED AND THE
OTHER ASPECTS THAT THE
APPLICANT HAS PRESENTED I
GENERALLY AGREE WITH THAT
ASSESSMENT.
I THINK THIS IS A IT&apos;S A TRICKY
CASE.
I THINK THAT I APPRECIATE THE
APPLICANT SITTING THERE, YOU
KNOW, PROVIDING THE INFORMATION
REGARDING THE INTENT TO TO
RESTORE A HISTORIC ON THAT HAS
A VERY PARTICULAR CHALLENGE.
UM, VERY TRICKY CHALLENGE.
UM, I THINK YOU KNOW, AS I WAS
TRYING TO PULL UP THE
GUIDELINES AND JUST LOOK
THROUGH THE FIRST SEVERAL ONE
TO NINE 10 YOU KNOW, ONE I
THINK IT DEFINITELY MEETS THE
PROPERTY WILL BE USED BECAUSE
IT WAS HISTORICALLY OR BE GIVEN
A NEW REQUIRES MINIMAL CHANGE
TO DISTINCTIVE MATERIALS,
FEATURE SPATIAL RELATIONSHIPS.
&gt;&gt; I THINK FOR THE MOST PART
THAT&apos;S NOT THE SPATIAL
RELATIONSHIPS MAYBE YOU KNOW A
LITTLE BIT IN QUESTION BUT I
THINK FOR THE MOST PART IT&apos;S
STAYING WITHIN THE SAME
FOOTPRINT.
THE HEIGHT IS REALLY I THINK
THE ONE THING IN QUESTION BUT I
THINK A LOT LENDS ITSELF TO A
LITTLE BIT OF A FLEXIBLE IT&apos;S A
REALLY SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP.
&gt;&gt; UM, THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE PROPERTY WILL BE
RETAINED.
&gt;&gt; ENTIRE FRONT MAIN PORTION
OF THE PROPERTY IS GOING TO BE
COMPLETELY VISIBLE AND ALMOST
UNTOUCHED WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE
I THINK FOR ME IT
BECOMES A QUESTION ABOUT YOU
KNOW, AS WE MAYBE MOVE DOWN
INTO
NUMBER NINE, WHERE ARE WE
GOING TO GET THE NEW YORK NEW
WORK WILL BE DIFFERENTIAL?
I THINK IT DEFINITELY WILL BE.
BUT THE MAGAZINE&apos;S GOT SIZE AND
SCALE THAT THE ROOF HEIGHT IS
IT WE GET INTO THE QUESTION
OF IS IT GOING TO BE SO
OVERPOWERING LOOMING IN THE
BACK AS WE MOVE TO THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE AND THINGS REALLY
START TO TO GET HIGHER AND I
THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THE
QUESTIONABLE PIECE FOR ME AND
THAT&apos;S WHERE THE ADDITIONAL
FLOOR ALSO BECOMES QUESTIONABLE
FOR ME BECAUSE IF WE DIDN&apos;T
HAVE THE ADDITIONAL FLOOR AREA
UP THERE, WE MIGHT NOT HAVE THE
HEIGHT ISSUE THAT WOULD BE
BRINGING THIS AS AN ADDITIONAL
ISSUE.
&gt;&gt; SO I THINK THAT THAT&apos;S THE
ONE PIECE THAT IS IS MY
STRUGGLE FROM IS JUST GOING TO
LOOK TO SEE IT NUMBER 10 SINCE
I&apos;M GOING THROUGH TO BE
UNDERTAKEN IN SUCH A MANNER
THAT IF REMOVED IN THE FUTURE
THE ESSENTIAL FOR THE INTEGRITY
OF THE PROPERTY WOULD REMAIN I
BELIEVE WE NEED THAT ONE.
SO FOR THE MOST PART I THINK
WE&apos;RE MEETING THE MAJORITY
OF THE GUIDELINES.
UM,
I&apos;M JUST AGAIN LOOKING AT
ANN ARBOR AND I THINK MOST
OF THOSE ARE SIMILAR SAY
ADDITIONAL SAY SOMETHING
SIMILAR THAN THE ONES THAT WERE
JUST READ
WELL SO IN NOT
RECOMMENDED EDITIONS DESIGNING
A NEW EDITION SO THAT IT&apos;S
SCALE IN RELATION TO THE
HISTORIC BUILDING ARE OUT
OF PROPORTION AND THUS
DIMINISHING THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER.
SO THAT&apos;S A QUESTION TO ASK
YOURSELF IS DOES THIS PROPOSED
EDITION DIMINISH
THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE PROPERTY OR
NOT?
ONE OF THE QUESTIONS IS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD THEY MENTIONED
THAT THEY HAD OTHER BUILDINGS
AROUND THEM THAT WERE ALREADY
TALLER IN THAT BUILDING AND SO
CONSIDERED THE LOWEST.
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE TALLER
THAN THE ONES THAT ARE ALREADY
EXISTING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
IT&apos;S GOT YOU STILL GOING TO BE
LOOKING DOWN AT THAT FROM IF I
MEAN ONE IN THAT HOUSE LOOKING
AT THEIR HOUSE.
I AGREE.
I THINK THAT THE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT WILL NOT BE A
DIMINISHED OR CHANGED IN ANY
WAY BY THE ADDITION AND I&apos;M
THINKING ABOUT THE HISTORIC
STRUCTURE ON THE PROPERTY
ITSELF KNOW WILL THAT BE
DIMINISHED?
AND SO THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S TO ME THE
QUESTION THAT THAT&apos;S A TOUGH
ONE ALMOST LEANING TOWARD IT.
&gt;&gt; IT WON&apos;T BE BECAUSE OF HOW
MUCH OF THE HISTORIC BUILDING
IS IS STILL PREVALENT AND
UNTOUCHED AND IT&apos;S PRETTY FAR
BACK.
IT WAS 40 FEET FROM THE PORCH
AND THAT&apos;S ANOTHER YOU KNOW, 10
FEET OR SO FROM THE FRONT WALK.
UM, IT&apos;S HARD IT&apos;S HARD TO
VISUALIZE.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW WHAT?
IT&apos;S A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT.
IT&apos;S IN PLACE BUT
AND I DO
THINK THE DESIGN IS PRETTY WELL
CONSIDERED AS FAR AS HOW THAT
NEW ROOF WOULD INTERACT WITH
THE EXISTING ROOF IT CREATES
EVEN THOUGH WE DON&apos;T HAVE THE
STUFF BACK LIKE WE WOULD
NORMALLY LIKE TO SEE ON.
IN ADDITION, IT GIVES A
DISTINCT CHANGE AND PLAIN FROM
THE ORIGINAL ROOF AND I THINK
THE FOUNDATION IS DIFFERENT IN
THAT PORTION
WHICH IS EVERYBODY
READY FOR VOTE OR ALL OF THOSE
IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE
SAY YES.
YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE
SAY NO NO.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
THE MOTION CARRIES US.
&gt;&gt; WE MOVE ON TO THE GARAGE
MOTION.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW NO OK I I I CAME UP TOO
QUICKLY BACK SO I HAVE TO WALK
OR WE&apos;LL FINISH THE SECOND THE
GROUND MOTION.
&gt;&gt; DO WE NEED TO REREAD IT OR
SAY YEAR LONG STAY IN BABA READ
IT.
YEAH OK SO I GUESS THE QUESTION
IS IS THE ADDITION OF GARAGE
AND THE ADDITIONAL HEIGHT GOING
TO BE AN ISSUE WITH THE IN
COMPARISON WITH THE THE HOUSE
ITSELF THERE CAN BE AN ADDED
COMPONENT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S I GOT TO SAY THIS IS AN
APPLICATION THAT REALLY WOULD
HAVE BENEFITED I THINK FROM A
PERSPECTIVE DRAWING BECAUSE THE
ELEVATION DON&apos;T PUT THAT UP
UNLESS YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO DO THE
PROJECT ANY FAVORS BECAUSE IT
JUST LOOKS TALL.
BUT IN PERSPECTIVE, YOU KNOW,
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO LOOK TALL.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO
IT&apos;S GOING TO DISAPPEAR HALF
OF IT BEHIND THE HOUSE AND THEN
IT&apos;S GOING TO BE LOWER THEN
THEN THE NEW ROOF AND IT SOUNDS
LIKE IT&apos;S GOING TO BE LOWER
THAN THAN NEIGHBORING HOUSES.
SO IT&apos;S A TOUGH ONE TO TO
VISUALIZE WITHOUT A DRY THANK
YOU.
WHAT DO YOU GUYS THINK?
I AGREE HAVING A PERSPECTIVE
YOU JUST FROM THE SIDE YOU
KNOW, PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY WOULD
HAVE HELPED TO PERCEIVE THE HOW
FAR BACK IT IS THE DEPTH BEFORE
YOU EVEN GET TO THE NEW ROOF
WHICH IS THEN SLOPING AWAY FROM
YOU SO THAT MAKING THAT GESTURE
OF ROTATING THE THE ROOF FORM
CERTAINLY HELPED.
BUT I AGREE THAT TYPE OF A
DRAWING FOR IMAGE WOULD HAVE
WOULD HAVE BEEN HELPFUL.
BUT REGARDING THE A-ROD EVEN IN
THE ELEVATION THAT WE SEE THE
FRONT ELEVATION YOU CAN CAN WE
LOOK AT A PHOTO OF THE EXISTING
GUYS FROM THE SIDEWALK AND WE
CAN OH YEAH.
THEY ASK HOW MUCH TALLER IT IS
AND THAT LAST THEN WE CAN
SQUINT THERE IT IS.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S WHAT I SEE.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN SEE HOW FAR IN THIS
PARK PART OF IT SO SO THE
EXISTING GARAGE IS WAY BACK
IT&apos;S DOWN A FOOT OR SO AND THE
PLATE HI THIS IS I DON&apos;T EVEN
THINK IT&apos;S AN EIGHT FOOT PLATE
HIGH AND THEN IT HAS THREE 312
OR WHICH IS UNCHARACTERISTIC TO
MOST OF THE STRUCTURES IN THE
OTHER.
SO WE&apos;RE WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE AN
EIGHT FOOT PLATE AND A FOUR
FOOT SIDE WALL WHICH WILL
PROBABLY BE ABOUT THE HEIGHT
OF THE EXISTING GARAGE ROOF AND
THEN THE ROOF ON TOP OF THAT
IT&apos;S A TWENTY FOUR WITH TWELVE
TO A WILL BE TEN MORE FEET SO
IT&apos;S FOURTEEN AND EIGHT THAT&apos;S
TWENTY TWO POINT TWENTY TWO
FEET.
WHERE IS THE GARAGE THAT YOU&apos;RE
LOOKING AT RIGHT NOW IS
PROBABLY ELEVEN OR TWELVE FEET
HIGH AND I&apos;M SORRY DAVID.
OH YOU&apos;RE YOU&apos;RE CORRECT YOU
CAN&apos;T HAVE THE BIG GARAGE NEXT
TO THE LITTLE HOUSE AND THE
GARAGE CAN BE TALLER.
I FELT BECAUSE IF THE HOUSE
COULD BE TALLER THEN OF COURSE
THE APARTMENT BUILDING RIGHT
NEXT DOOR IS UP ABOUT FIVE FEET
IN THE GREAT ELEVATION A MUCH
TALLER THAT SEEMED TO FIT BACK
THERE AND THEN THE TREES DOWN
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE PROPERTY
LADDER 41 FEET TALL THEY ALL
YOU HAVE TO RECOGNIZE THAT THE
LANDSCAPING WHO AFFECTS THE
MASINO LOOK IN THE VOLUMES AND
THE RIGHT
ANY ADDITIONAL CUTS
AND HE IS READY FOR A VOTE.
I THINK ALL OF THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
.
THE MOTION CARRIED PLEASE NOTE
THAT YOU MUST FIND MY LANGUAGE
HERE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THIS IS A DIFFICULT ONE.
I APPRECIATE IT AND WE HAVE TO
RECOGNIZE A VARIANCE YOU COME
BEFORE BOARDS FOR VARIANCES
BECAUSE YOU HAVE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES AND HARDSHIPS THAT
ARE UNIQUE CONDITIONS AND I I
APPRECIATE ALL THE EFFORT AND
YOUR ENERGY PUT INTO THIS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU CARL AND KELVIN AND
HEIDI.
AS A CONDITION OF THESE
MOTIONS, I DO NEED MORE
INFORMATION ON THE NEW PERSON
DOORS AND THE NEW WINDOWS ON
THE EDITION.
SO EMAILS YOU WANT IT WON&apos;T BE
LONG.
THANK YOU.
AND YOU KNOW I&apos;LL GIVE IT
RIGHT.
WE ACTUALLY NEED TO TAKE A FIVE
MINUTE RECESS.
&gt;&gt; THE ZOOM IS NOT WORKING SO
PARTICULARLY TECHNICAL
DIFFICULTIES TAKE FIVE
ORDER
FROM OUR RECESS.
WE ARE ON HEARING THREE FIVE
THIRTY NORTH DIVISION
DISPATCHER WHEN YOU&apos;RE READY
WILL YOU PLEASE GET THE STAFF
REPORT?
&gt;&gt; OK, ALL RIGHT ONE SECOND
WILL HOW EVERYONE FROM YOUR
POSITION SO BACK IN THE MAGICAL
MONTH OF APRIL TWENTY TWENTY
THERE WAS AN APPLICATION TO
APPROVE A REPLACEMENT BUILDING
A REDO OF AN EXISTING BUILDING
WITH A BIG ADDITION IN THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
AND THIS BUILDING THE APPLICANT
CAME TO A WORKING SESSION OR
TWO AND I&apos;M THINKING IT MAY
HAVE EVEN GONE TO A MEETING
ONCE BUT THEN COVID HIT AND THE
APPLICATION WAS LIVE AND WE
REALIZED AFTER MISSING BOTH THE
MARCH AND APRIL HGC MEETINGS
WHICH WERE CANCELED, WE HAD TWO
OR THREE OUTSTANDING
APPLICATIONS AND THOSE WE DEALT
WITH BY SEEING IF ANYBODY HAD
ANY ISSUES WITH THEM AND THEN
LETTING THEM BE APPROVED AFTER
THE END OF THE 60 DAY PERIOD BY
TAKING NO ACTION BECAUSE NO
SERIOUS ISSUES WERE RAISED AT
THAT TIME.
SO THIS APPLICATION HAVE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
IT WAS EARLIER THAN THAT DEEMED
TO BE A CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
ANYWAY.
IT&apos;S TWO STRUCTURES THAT WORK
TOGETHER A LONG TIME AGO AND
MADE INTO THIS JUST ONE MEGA
BUILDING HERE AND SO WE&apos;VE GOT
AN APPROVED PLAN FOR MODIFYING
THIS BUILDING, PUTTING AN
ADDITION ON THE BACK, MAKING IT
THE GREENEST BUILDING IN A
LARGE RADIUS AND I CAN TELL YOU
A LITTLE MORE ABOUT THAT IF YOU
WANT TO.
BUT AFTER THAT CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS WAS ISSUED,
THE TEAM WORKING ON THIS TOOK
SOME OF THE COMMENTS THAT THEY
HEARD FROM THE COMMISSION TO
HEART AND MADE SOME
MODIFICATIONS AND THOSE ARE
WHAT ARE HERE TONIGHT TO BE
DISCUSSED.
AND IN A NUTSHELL I BORROWED
SOME OF DOUG&apos;S APPLICATION
SLIDES HERE.
THIS IS THE FRONT OF THE
EXISTING BUILDING AND MUCH
NICER SUMMER DAY AT HERE&apos;S WHAT
IT LOOKS LIKE TODAY AND THE
BACK TODAY.
&gt;&gt; THIS ON THE TOP THE RED AND
YELLOW BUILDINGS ARE WHAT WAS
APPROVED IN MARCH OF TWENTY
TWENTY AND YOU CAN SEE THE
ADDITION HERE IN THE BACK YOU
CAN SEE THAT THE ROOF LINE IS
MODIFIED.
THERE ARE TONS OF SOLAR PANELS
UP HERE.
THERE ARE SHED DORMERS ON BOTH
SIDES AND THE WINDOWS HAVE BEEN
CHANGED AGAIN, THIS IS NOT A
CONTRIBUTING BUILDING SO THIS
IS ALL GOOD AND THE THING THAT
THE HTC
COMMENTED ON
SPECIFICALLY ONE OF THEM WAS
THIS STAIRWELL GOING DOWN HERE
BECAUSE HAVING THIS BIG
GUARDRAIL IN THE FRONT YARD
WASN&apos;T IDEAL SO IT WAS
REDESIGNED BY SINKING PART
OF THIS FRONT CORNER OF THE
YARD AND PUTTING UP A LITTLE
RETAINING WALL AND A BUNCH
OF LANDSCAPING HERE IN ORDER TO
MAKE THIS GUARDRAIL SYSTEM GO
AWAY.
SO THE WAY IT WORKS NOW AND
THIS IS THE MONEY SLIDE WITH
THE THE SIDE PLAN AND THE THE
RENDERING OF WHAT IT WOULD LOOK
LIKE HERE OR THIS IS WHAT IT
WAS USED TO LOOK LIKE HERE ON
THE LEFT.
BUT YOU WOULD WALK TO THE
TOWARD THE FRONT DOOR TWO STEPS
DOWN TO THIS SLIGHTLY SUNKEN
PATIO AND THEN A FEW MORE STEPS
DOWN UNDERNEATH THE FRONT
PORCH.
SO GUARDRAILS HANDRAILS ARE
HIDDEN UNDERNEATH THE PORCH
THIS SURFACE DOUG CAN TELL YOU
A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT THAT.
THERE IS A STONE WALL AKIN TO
THE STONE WALL THAT IS OUTSIDE
OF THE CHURCH DOWN THE STREET
ST. ANDREWS THIS GIVES THE
PATIO SPACE FOR THE TENANTS TO
USE.
IT&apos;S NOT TYPICAL TO HAVE SOME
FRONT YARD THERE.
I CAN THINK OF TWO IN THE OLD
WEST SIDE THAT HAVE BEEN
APPROVED IN THE LAST FIVE OR
SIX YEARS.
ONE&apos;S ON THE CORNER OF MOSELY
AND SECOND AND ONE IS AT THE
CORNER OF 7TH AND WEST
JEFFERSON.
THAT WAS A BIG NEW HOUSE WITH
THE WHOLE SIDE YARD WAS
SOMETHING THAT WAS THE MOST
RECENT ONE.
SO HERE&apos;S A VIEW FROM THE
STREET OF WHAT IT WOULD LOOK
LIKE.
YOU CAN SEE THE WALL HERE.
IT&apos;S AT ITS LET&apos;S SEE THIS IS
THIS IS TWO FEET HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE WALL ITSELF ABOVE
GRADE LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S EVEN LESS
THAN TWO FEET TALL THOUGH IT
DOES STEP AROUND AND THE THE
ENTRY WOULD BE RIGHT OVER HERE
.
HERE&apos;S A DRAWING SHOWING SORT
OF A SECTION A SIDE VIEW
OF HERE WOULD THE WALL FROM THE
INSIDE THIS IS THIS WOULD BE AT
ITS TALLEST POINT AND THE
SIDEWALK IS HERE THE THE SITE
SLOPE&apos;S DOWN HILL GOING TO THE
NORTH QUITE SUBSTANTIAL.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF OTHER
THINGS THAT ARE INCLUDED IN
THIS APPLICATION.
THE TOP WAS WHAT WAS APPROVED
AND THE BOTTOM IS WHAT IS
PROPOSED.
SOME WINDOW CHANGES BOTH ON THE
EXISTING HEART AND ON THE NEW
ADDITIONS.
NONE OF THESE EVEN GIVE ME
PAUSE BECAUSE AGAIN IT&apos;S A
NONCONTRIBUTING BUILDING AND
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VERY CLOSE TO WHAT
WAS THE FIRST TIME AROUND.
HERE&apos;S THE SOUTH SIDE THE NORTH
SIDE ELEVATION.
SAME THING.
&gt;&gt; SOME WINDOW CHANGES.
MAYBE DOUG CAN COME AND IT DOES
LOOK LIKE THE THE REAR EDITION
IS SHALLOWER THAN IT USED TO
BE.
BUT WHEN WE GET TO YOU, DOUG,
YOU CAN TALK ABOUT THAT BECAUSE
THERE USED TO BE LIKE THREE,
FOUR WINDOWS ACROSS.
NOW THERE&apos;S ONE IN THE CENTER,
JUST THE NEW ADDITIONS ON THE
BACK FROM THE NORTH.
LET&apos;S SEE AND HERE&apos;S ANOTHER
VIEW OF WHAT THE THE FRONT
LOOKS LIKE.
&gt;&gt; OK, THAT&apos;S FOR MY
PRESENTATION.
I&apos;M GOING TO THE TURN IT BACK
TO THE CHAIR.
I DID I DID COMMENT BRIEFLY
THAT I THINK THAT THIS WORK IS
APPROPRIATE.
I DO PREFER IT TO HAVING THIS
BIG STAIRWELL GOING DOWN IN THE
FRONT.
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THAT&apos;S A
GOOD OR AN APPROPRIATE LOOK AND
WELL I WOULDN&apos;T IF THIS WERE A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE I
PROBABLY WOULD NOT BE VERY MUCH
IN FAVOR AT ALL OF A SUNKEN
PATIO IN A FRONT YARD.
BUT GIVEN ITS LOCATION KIND
OF AT THE END OF THE ROW THE
DISTRICT SORT OF PETERS OUT
BEHIND IT AND I&apos;M I&apos;M REALLY OK
WITH THIS THIS REWORK AS
PROPOSED AND I DO APPRECIATE
THE TEAMS TRY ATTEMPT TO TO GET
RID OF THAT BIG GUARDRAIL IN
THE FRONT YARD.
THANK YOU.
THAT&apos;S IT FOR ME.
MISS THATCHER AND MYSELF WERE
THANK YOU.
ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE AND
MISS THATCHER AND MYSELF WERE
START ON THIS ONE.
ON THE REVIEW COMMITTEE AND
SO I GENERALLY AGREE WITH
START ON THIS ONE.
STAFF.
SO I GENERALLY AGREE WITH
I THINK ONE OF THE MOST I THINK
STAFF.
IN WE WERE LOOKING MOSTLY AT
I THINK ONE OF THE MOST I THINK
THE FRONT ENTRANCE MODIFICATION
IN WE WERE LOOKING MOSTLY AT
.
THE FRONT ENTRANCE MODIFICATION
RIGHT, BECAUSE THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
.
REALLY THE THE I THINK FROM ONE
RIGHT, BECAUSE THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
OF THE IMAGES IN THE PACKET
REALLY THE THE I THINK FROM ONE
THAT WE&apos;LL PROBABLY GET TO IN A
OF THE IMAGES IN THE PACKET
PRESENTATION BY THE APPLICANT
THAT WE&apos;LL PROBABLY GET TO IN A
SHOWS THE FOOTPRINT LEAVE IT IS
PRESENTATION BY THE APPLICANT
IT IS SLIGHTLY FORWARD A LITTLE
SHOWS THE FOOTPRINT LEAVE IT IS
BIT OH I&apos;M SORRY I DIDN&apos;T
IT IS SLIGHTLY FORWARD A LITTLE
MENTION THAT THE HOUSE&apos;S
BIT OH I&apos;M SORRY I DIDN&apos;T
SHIFTING A LITTLE BIT RIGHT ON
MENTION THAT THE HOUSE&apos;S
ITS FOUNDATION TO BE MORE
SHIFTING A LITTLE BIT RIGHT ON
PARALLEL TO THE STREET AND TO
ITS FOUNDATION TO BE MORE
FIT A LOT BETTER.
PARALLEL TO THE STREET AND TO
BUT THAT HAD BEEN IN THERE TOO
FIT A LOT BETTER.
.
BUT THAT HAD BEEN IN THERE TOO
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S ON PAGE THIRTY
.
SEVEN IN THE PDF BUT THERE&apos;S A
&gt;&gt; I THINK IT&apos;S ON PAGE THIRTY
FOOTPRINT OF THE OLD AND NOW
SEVEN IN THE PDF BUT THERE&apos;S A
CROSSHATCH WITH A HEAVY BASS
FOOTPRINT OF THE OLD AND NOW
LINE THAT SHOWING THE NEW SO
CROSSHATCH WITH A HEAVY BASS
THE POINT OF THE FRONT WALL IS
LINE THAT SHOWING THE NEW SO
SHIFTING FORWARD SLIGHTLY NOT I
THE POINT OF THE FRONT WALL IS
THINK IT&apos;S ALMOST AN
SHIFTING FORWARD SLIGHTLY NOT I
INSIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE FOR
THINK IT&apos;S ALMOST AN
FOR THIS CONVERSATION THAT MISS
INSIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCE FOR
THATCHER SAID THE BIG CHANGE IS
FOR THIS CONVERSATION THAT MISS
REALLY THAT FRONT YARD SPACE
THATCHER SAID THE BIG CHANGE IS
THE THAT IS EXISTING THERE&apos;S
REALLY THAT FRONT YARD SPACE
THE SIDEWALK AND STREET, YOU
THE THAT IS EXISTING THERE&apos;S
KNOW, START TO REALLY TOWARD
THE SIDEWALK AND STREET, YOU
THE NORTH QUITE SIGNIFICANTLY
KNOW, START TO REALLY TOWARD
ACROSS THE PROPERTY.
THE NORTH QUITE SIGNIFICANTLY
I DON&apos;T HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THE
ACROSS THE PROPERTY.
RETAINING WALL.
I DON&apos;T HAVE AN ISSUE WITH THE
I THINK THAT&apos;S PROPOSED.
RETAINING WALL.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S AT A DECENT
I THINK THAT&apos;S PROPOSED.
HEIGHT.
IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S AT A DECENT
THERE WERE OTHER HOUSES AROUND
HEIGHT.
IN THE SAME AREA THAT ALSO HAVE
THERE WERE OTHER HOUSES AROUND
RETAINING WALLS.
IN THE SAME AREA THAT ALSO HAVE
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE SEEN THESE ON A FEW
RETAINING WALLS.
PROPERTIES JUST IN THE FRONT
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE SEEN THESE ON A FEW
YARD.
PROPERTIES JUST IN THE FRONT
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE IS GOING TO
YARD.
BE A LITTLE BIT OF A BUFFER IN
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE IS GOING TO
BETWEEN THE RETAINING WALL AND
BE A LITTLE BIT OF A BUFFER IN
THE SIDEWALK.
BETWEEN THE RETAINING WALL AND
SO A PLANTING BUFFER UM I THINK
THE SIDEWALK.
WAS THE ONLY KIND OF QUESTIONS
SO A PLANTING BUFFER UM I THINK
OR COMMENTS WE DISCUSSED WAS
WAS THE ONLY KIND OF QUESTIONS
WHAT IS THE SURFACE OF THAT
OR COMMENTS WE DISCUSSED WAS
PATIO BECAUSE IT DOES SEEM TO
WHAT IS THE SURFACE OF THAT
TAKE UP QUITE A BIT OF THE
PATIO BECAUSE IT DOES SEEM TO
FRONT YARD SPACE AND THAT WAS
TAKE UP QUITE A BIT OF THE
REALLY I THINK THE MAIN CONCERN
FRONT YARD SPACE AND THAT WAS
FROM OUR POINT OF VIEW TO
REALLY I THINK THE MAIN CONCERN
FIGURING OUT WHAT THAT SURFACE
FROM OUR POINT OF VIEW TO
IS AND HOW THAT KNOW WORKS WITH
FIGURING OUT WHAT THAT SURFACE
THE OVERALL MATERIAL AND IF
IS AND HOW THAT KNOW WORKS WITH
THERE&apos;S ANY OTHER ADDITIONAL
THE OVERALL MATERIAL AND IF
GREENERY PLANNED FOR THAT SPACE
THERE&apos;S ANY OTHER ADDITIONAL
IN PARTICULAR.
GREENERY PLANNED FOR THAT SPACE
COMMISSIONER KEANNA, I REALLY
IN PARTICULAR.
DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH MORE TO ADD TO
COMMISSIONER KEANNA, I REALLY
THE COMMENTS MADE BY OUR CHAIR
DON&apos;T HAVE MUCH MORE TO ADD TO
AND THE INFORMATION PRESENTED
THE COMMENTS MADE BY OUR CHAIR
BY STAFF.
AND THE INFORMATION PRESENTED
IT&apos;S REALLY JUST UNDERSTANDING
BY STAFF.
THE IMPACT OF IN MY MIND THE
IT&apos;S REALLY JUST UNDERSTANDING
IMPACT OF THAT CHANGE TO THE
THE IMPACT OF IN MY MIND THE
FRONT YARD PORTION AS A NON
IMPACT OF THAT CHANGE TO THE
CONTRIBUTING BUILDING IN THE
FRONT YARD PORTION AS A NON
DISTRICT.
CONTRIBUTING BUILDING IN THE
THANK YOU.
DISTRICT.
OK, SO I WANT TO TURN IT OVER
THANK YOU.
TO MR SELBY.
OK, SO I WANT TO TURN IT OVER
DO YOU HAVE ACCESS TO SHARE
TO MR SELBY.
YOUR PRESENTATION OR.
DO YOU HAVE ACCESS TO SHARE
&gt;&gt; YES I BELIEVE I DO SHOOTING
YOUR PRESENTATION OR.
FOR SOME REASON IT&apos;S NOT SO
&gt;&gt; YES I BELIEVE I DO SHOOTING
AGAIN SECOND
OK, CAN YOU SEE
THAT THAT SORT OF YOU MAY NEED
TO ZOOM IN ON A VERY DISTINCT
AREAS WHEN YOU&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT
BECAUSE THE MONITORS WE SEE ARE
ON THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF THE
ROOM OBVIOUSLY IF ANYBODY WANTS
TO GET UP AND STAND UNDER THE
MONITORS THERE&apos;S NO REASON YOU
CAN&apos;T DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; OH MAN.
I JUST LOVE THE TWO.
OH, OK.
I PROBABLY SHOULD&apos;VE JUST COME
IN.
I KIND OF THOUGHT THAT THERE
WAS NOT REALLY HAPPENING DOWN
AT CITY HALL YET SO WE CAN WE
CAN SEE IF WE NEED TO GET UP
AND GO OVER THERE WE CAN OK
WELL OBVIOUSLY I BELIEVE JOEL
SHOWED THIS THIS AREA WHICH YOU
KNOW HAD PASSED AND WHAT IT IS
NOW VERSUS WHAT NEST IN MARCH
OF TWENTY TWENTY GET THAT WE WE
REALLY DID WHEN THE SUGGESTION
WAS MADE TO GET RID OF THE
GARBAGE.
WELL THE ONLY REASON I WAS
THERE IS BECAUSE WE THOUGHT WE
HAD TO ENTER FROM THE FRONT
OF THE DRIVEWAY WHICH THE GOES
UP KIND OF THE THE FOLLOWING IN
TWO DIRECTIONS HERE.
SO IT&apos;S FALLING DOWN AS YOU GO
DOWN THE SIDEWALK AND IT&apos;S
FALLING AS YOU COME DOWN THE
DRIVEWAY.
SO I THINK IN SOME WAYS THIS
DRIVEWAY ON THE RIGHT MIGHT BE
A LITTLE DECEIVING AS THAT IT
LOOKS DEEPER THAN IT PROBABLY
WOULD BE.
BUT THAT&apos;S MOSTLY BECAUSE WE
WERE COMING FROM THE DRIVEWAY
SIDE AND AND WE JUST WE HAD TO
ABIDE WITH THE
CODE REQUIREMENTS.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAD A GUARDRAIL OVER
30 OVER 30 INCHES TALL.
&gt;&gt; BUT NONETHELESS WHEN WE CAME
BACK SHANNON RANDALL SAID I
SHOULD HAVE BEEN MYSELF GOT
TOGETHER AND SAID, YOU KNOW,
WHAT CAN WE DO?
AND IT REALLY CAME DOWN TO HOW
DO WE GET TO THE POINT OF BEING
ABLE TO TRAVERSE AROUND DOWN TO
THE TO THE TO THE UNDERGROUND
PART.
THE THE COMMISSIONERS HAD ASKED
US TO REMOVE THE STAIR OR MOVE
THE STAIRS TO NO FURTHER THAN
THE CORNER OF THE BUILDING
WHICH IS SORT WHERE YOU SEE
THAT HANDRAIL RETURN ON THE
LEFT AND THEN ALSO TO GET RID
OF THE HANDRAIL.
SO WE WERE KIND OF EXCITED
ABOUT IT BECAUSE WE NOT ONLY
MOVED THE STAIRS ALL THE WAY,
WE ACTUALLY WERE ABLE TO MOVE
THEM ALL THE WAY TO THE TO THE
PORCH AND SO THEY&apos;RE COMPLETELY
HIDDEN AND THERE IS NO HANDRAIL
NOW ON IT ALSO SOME OTHER
ISSUES IN TERMS OF , YOU KNOW,
JUST ALLOWING MORE DAYLIGHT
INTO THAT AREA AND SORT
OF HAVING THE GARDEN APARTMENT
THE
SOMETHING THAT SOME YOU
KNOW, JUST IT&apos;S GOT A LITTLE
BIT OF OUTDOOR SPACE THAT HELPS
WITH THE LIVING BUILDING
CHALLENGE ASPECT OF THE PROJECT
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, YOU&apos;RE
SUPPOSED TO GIVE PEOPLE ACCESS
TO OUTDOORS AND AND AND SORT
OF SPACES LIKE THAT TO TO HANG
OUT AND TO TO ENJOY THE THE
NATURAL AREAS AROUND WHERE ALL
THE THINGS THAT HAD DONE IN HER
PART OF THE DESIGN IS TO
INCORPORATE QUITE A BIT
OF LANDSCAPING AROUND WHICH ALL
OF WHICH IS REQUIRED BY THE
PROGRAM DETAILS BUT KIND
OF BEING SENSITIVE TO THE FACT
THAT WE NEEDED TO KIND
OF SHIELD THAT AREA AND MAKE IT
MAKE IT WORK.
THE NORTHERN PART, YOU KNOW,
GOING NORTH FROM THE PORCH IS
IS ARE EXTENSIVELY LANDSCAPE
ACTUALLY THIS PART THERE IS TO
IT IT&apos;S GOT TO BUFFER PRETTY
MUCH ALL THE WAY AROUND EXCEPT
FOR THE ACTUAL WALKWAY.
I ALSO WOULD SAY THAT THIS IS A
TOTAL OF NINE FEET FROM THE
FRONT OF THE PORCH TO THE START
OF THE LANDSCAPING.
SO IT&apos;S A PRETTY SMALL AREA TO
BEGIN WITH.
&gt;&gt; ONE SORT IDEALS AND THAT WAS
TO BORROW FROM THE CHURCH UP
THE STREET.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE SOME CUTS
DOWN FROM THE ACTUAL PROJECT.
THE FOUNDATION IS 100 PERCENT
SUNK INTO THE GROUND RIGHT NOW
BUT THERE IS AN AREA IN THE
REAR THAT HAS SOME CUT STONES.
WE SHOULD BE VERY NICE TO REUSE
THAT ON THE SITE AND THEN AND
DO A NICE MASONRY WALL LIKE YOU
SEE IT AT ST ANDREW&apos;S CHURCH
AND THE OTHER THING WAS JUST
THESE LITTLE AREAS TO CLOSE OFF
OF THE OFF OF THE SIDEWALK KIND
OF A TRANSITION ZONE BETWEEN
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SPHERES AND
ALSO, YOU KNOW, BEING THAT THAT
THAT PARTICULAR LOCATION HAS
SOME TERRAIN CHANGES TOO.
SO WITH SORT OF THE LOWER AREAS
GOING DOWN INTO, YOU KNOW, SORT
OF REMOTE AREAS VERSUS GOING
KIND OF UP INTO THE THE THE
CHURCH ITSELF KIND OF THE THE
THINGS THAT WE WE USED TO CALL
ON TO TO HELP THIS DESIGN UM I
THINK JUST SHOWED YOU THIS
SLIDE.
&gt;&gt; SO YEAH WE ARE IT IS TWO
RISERS DOWN TO TWO THE THE
SUNKEN AREA THERE THAT IS A
TOTAL OF NINE FEET FROM THE
HOUSE TO THE TO THE FRONT.
SO AGAIN NOT A HUGE AREA BUT A
LITTLE MORE GENEROUS THAN IF
YOU JUST HAD TO MAKE A PATHWAY
.
THERE IS REALLY NO WAY TO GET
TO THE POINT OF NOT NEEDING A
HANDRAIL SOMEWHERE UNLESS WE AT
LEAST BROUGHT THIS DOWN.
SO WE BROUGHT IT DOWN TO THE
MINIMUM AMOUNT WE COULD TO BE
ABLE TO LOSE THE HANDRAIL
ENTIRELY, DESIGN THE SURFACE
BELOW TO BE A EXPOSED CON
CONCRETE.
I TYPICALLY HAVE USED THAT FOR
SORT OF OUTDOOR AREAS WHERE
STALIN OR PATIO PAVERS AREN&apos;T
USED.
THE REASON I LIKE IT ESPECIALLY
IN THIS CONTEXT IS THAT WE USE
IT.
IT IS A GRANITE PISTONE FINE
STONE PEBBLES AND ONCE YOU WASH
THE CREME CONCRETE CREAM OFF
AND OIL THOSE PEBBLES THEY LOOK
LIKE THEY&apos;RE THE SAME MATERIAL
AS THE GRANITE OF THE BLOCK.
SO YOU GET THAT KIND OF A NICE
COLORFUL SURFACE VERY EARLY IN
TONE AND TEXTURE WHICH I
THOUGHT WOULD BE REALLY GREAT
WITH WITH THE STONE WHICH
MULTICOLORED STONE.
SO YOU KIND OF MULTICOLOR
EFFECT IN THE STONE ITSELF BUT
THAT&apos;S JUST KIND OF WHAT WE
CAME UP WITH IS THE DESIGN TEAM
AND THOUGHT THAT WOULD LOOK
NICE THERE IS THIS AREA DOES
NOT WORK ON THE SITE.
THERE IS A PART IN THE BACK
THAT DOES SO WE ARE REQUIRED TO
HAVE A DRAIN IN THIS IN THIS
AREA THAT THAT GOES OUT TO THE
DRIVEWAY WITH THE DRAIN THAT
COMES DOWN.
SO THERE&apos;S THIS AND A SMALL
AREA OF THE DRIVEWAY GO INTO
THE STORM CELLAR WHICH IS RIGHT
AT THE EDGE OF THE PROPERTY
THERE AND THEN ABOUT 90 TO 95
PERCENT OF THE WATER THAT FALLS
ON THE SITE ACTUALLY WILL BE
INFILTRATED IN THE BACK.
SO THIS AREA IS JUST A LITTLE
TOO LOW FOR THAT.
BUT IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A VERY ABOUT BY
THE VOLUME ON THE TOTAL LOT
JUST TO KIND I THINK THE
PICTURES CAN BE A LITTLE
DECEIVING.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S REALLY NOT THAT FAR
ABOVE THE SIDEWALK AND IN FACT
THE NORTH SIDE OF THE SIDEWALK
IS IS EVEN A FOOT LOWER THAN
THAN WHAT THE THE THE LOWEST
PART OR THE LOWER PART OF THE
ENTRY IS IT&apos;S IN TOTAL AT THE
HIGHEST POINT OF THE SIDEWALK
TO THE ENTRY AREA.
THE SECOND ENTRY AREA IS JUST
UNDER TWO FEET AND SO FROM THE
OUTSIDE YOU&apos;LL SEE WALKING DOWN
THE SIDEWALK YOU&apos;LL SEE A
LITTLE WALL ON THE INSIDE IT&apos;S
PROBABLY SOMETHING THAT
SOMEBODY COULD KIND OF LEAN ON
OR SIT ON AND IT WOULD BE ABOUT
RIGHT HEIGHT FOR FOR PEOPLE TO
TO KIND OF CONGREGATE, SIT
HERE, LEAN ON THE WALL ALSO IF
IT WAS JUST THE HEIGHT
DIFFERENCE FROM EVEN WALKING
DOWN THE SIDEWALK TO SOMEBODY
IN THERE, IT&apos;S NOT GREAT.
SO I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;LL BE VERY
JARRING FROM A STANDPOINT
OF BEING LIKE, YOU KNOW,
SEVERAL FEET DOWN OR ANYTHING
LIKE THAT.
YOU KNOW, THIS WAS REALLY JUST
OUTSIDERS TO SAY THAT, YOU
KNOW, THERE&apos;S SO MUCH THAT IN
GENERAL IS PRETTY FLAT AND SO
WHAT THIS IS AN AREA WITH SOME
TERRAIN AND THOSE AREAS WITH
RAIN.
THERE&apos;S A VARIETY OF DIFFERENT
WAYS THOSE ARE KIND OF DEALT
WITH.
THIS IS DIRECTLY ACROSS THE
STREET, THE FLAT ERM BUILDING
ON THE SAME CONDITION THEY HAD
AN AREA WHERE THEY NEEDED TO
AND THE PARKING IS ABOUT SIX
FEET LOWER.
THIS IS JUST A CONCRETE WALL TO
PROTECT PEOPLE FROM FALLING
OVER THE EDGE TO THE PARKING
AREA BELOW THAT IS PAVED.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A ROAD MAP OF THE
OFF OF THE SIDEWALK.
IT GOES DOWN A FEW STEPS INTO
THE LOWER ENTRY AREA.
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE TWO CENTRAL NOT
OUT OF CONTEXT IN THE IN THE
IMMEDIATE AREA FOR ANOTHER
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE.
AND THE ONLY DIFFERENCE BEING
IS THAT THIS ONE KIND
OF ENLIVENS THE STREET SCENE.
SO IT&apos;S NOT SO MUCH LIKE
THERE&apos;S A WALL TO PROTECT THE
PROPERTY FROM THE SIDEWALK AND
VICE VERSA.
BUT IN OUR CASE IT&apos;S MORE LIKE
NATURAL MATERIALS THAT MATCH
OTHER THINGS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND CREATE THEIR
OWN ENVIRONMENT OF ENJOYMENT
FOR THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE
.
WE WE DID MAKE SOME CHANGES TO
PROPERTY.
ONE OF THE ONES THAT I THINK
WORKED OUT BETTER IS THAT WE
WERE ABLE TO WE THINK ABOUT THE
SECTIONS BETWEEN THE FLOORS AND
HAVE A LITTLE BIT OF A CEILING
THAT&apos;S RAISED INSIDE THERE.
THE CHANGES WERE PARTIALLY
REQUIRED BY FIRE CODE BUT IN
THE END I THINK IT LOOKED REAL
REAL SIMILAR TO WHAT WE HAD
ORIGINALLY PASSED.
THE WINDOWS CHANGED BECAUSE THE
LAYOUT AND THE INSIDE HAD TO
CHANGE AS A RESULT OF MOVING
THOSE THE STRUCTURE MOVING THE
ENTRY DOWN.
WE CHANGED THE INSIDE AND MADE
THE THE SOCIAL SPACE THE COMMON
AREAS OF THE HOUSE ALL TOWARDS
THE FRONT.
AND SO WHAT YOU SEE THERE IN
THE MIDDLE AND THAT&apos;S THE
KITCHEN AND ALL THOSE UNITS.
SO WHAT YOU&apos;RE SEEING IS THE
WINDOWS THAT ARE OVER THE SINK
WHICH IS COMING IN SORT OF THE
OLDER HOUSES IS THAT THE
WINDOWS OVER THE SINK HAVE TO
BE A LITTLE SHORTER IN ORDER TO
HAVE A COUNTER HEIGHT THERE.
BUT THE REST OF THEM ARE MEANT
TO BE TIGHTER AND SKINNIER AND
LESS WHEN THE WALL RATIO LIKE
YOU WOULD SEE COMMONLY IN OLDER
HOMES DENHA THE ELEVATION
DOESN&apos;T GET REALLY SEEN VERY
MUCH BECAUSE YOU&apos;RE KIND
OF HEADING UP THE HILL AND IT&apos;S
THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION OF THE
STREET.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT HAPPENED
AS RESULT OF COVID WAS THAT
WHEN IT FIRST HIT NOBODY KNEW
WHAT WAS GOING TO HAPPEN IN THE
BANK SAID HEY GUESS WHAT, WE&apos;RE
NOT GOING TO BE FINANCING
STUDENT RENTALS FOR A WHILE.
&gt;&gt; HAVE PEOPLE WERE GOING TO BE
GOING TO SCHOOL ANYMORE FOR A
LITTLE WHILE AND SO THEY TOOK
ABOUT A YEAR TO RESOLVE THAT
AND BE ABLE TO GET THIS
FINANCED.
BUT IN THE MEANTIME, AS WE ALL
KNOW, CONSTRUCTION COSTS HAVE
GONE THROUGH THE ROOF.
AND SO ONE OF THE WAYS I&apos;VE
KIND OF DEALT WITH THAT AND
BEEN ABLE TO DO THAT WITHOUT
SACRIFICING A LOT OF THE DEEP
GREEN PERSPECTIVES OF A NET
POSITIVE ENERGY HOUSE AND THE
EXTENT OF REBUILDING
OF INFRASTRUCTURE I HAVE TO DO
NOT ONLY ON THIS PROPERTY BUT
ALSO IN THE STREET OUT IN THE
STREET WAS TO TO GO MODULAR
WHEN I WAS WORKING WITH
MEADOWLARK WE DESIGNED AND
BUILT THE THE NATION&apos;S FIRST WE
GOT A MODULAR HOME EAST
OF CALIFORNIA ANYWAY AND SO I
WORKED CLOSELY WITH A COMPANY
OR I HAVE ON SEVERAL PROJECTS
AND KIND OF KNOW HOW TO DESIGN
IN THIS FASHION.
IT&apos;S A GREAT QUALITY BUILDING
AND THEY ARE ABLE TO ALTER
THEIR CONSTRUCTION METHODS TO
ALLOW THIS TO BE BUILT IN THAT
FASHION AND DUE TO THE TIME
SAVINGS AND SOME OF THE MONEY
SAVINGS ON THIS, I WAS ABLE TO
BRING THE PROJECT I WOULDN&apos;T
SAY BACK TO WHERE IT WAS BUT
SOMEWHERE IN ALIGNMENT WHERE I
COULD STILL ACTUALLY GET TO
FINANCE.
BUT AS A RESULT ONE OF THE
SECTIONS IN THE BACK HAD TO GO
TO THE TO THE REAR A LITTLE BIT
IN TO BE ABLE TO FIT IN WITH
THOSE ITEMS ARE BUILT THE SAME
MY CHANGES TO THE FRONT DO ALSO
AGAIN DUE TO THE DUE TO THE
CHANGE IN THE THREE WINDOWS IN
THE FRONT NO LONGER WORKED IN
THAT WAY.
SO WE ACTUALLY THOUGHT THAT
MIGHT BE A LITTLE BIT OF AN
ADVANTAGE BECAUSE IT WAS ALSO
MATCHING MAGIC AND
PROVIDED A
LITTLE BIT OF CONTEXT BETWEEN
THE HOMES A LITTLE BIT
OF DISTINCTION ANYWAY.
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO GO FROM TEN AND
TWELVE TO TWELVE AND TWELVE
WHICH BETTER MATCH THE
BUILDINGS ON THE STREET BUT ARE
WE&apos;RE BEING COMPARED TO I THINK
I HAVE A SLIDE COMING UP FOR
THAT ACTUALLY I JUST GO TO THAT
SLIDE HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO THE PROPOSED SLIDE DOWN
ON THE BOTTOM THIS IS WHAT IT
IS IN THE FRONT AND THIS IS
WHAT IT IS BELOW THE LOW SLUNG
NATURE OF THIS HOUSE AND HOW IT
REALLY DOESN&apos;T MATCH THE
PATTERNS OF THE OTHER HOUSE.
IT KIND OF REMINDED ME OF A
BROKEN FRONT TOOTH AND SO WHAT
WE TRIED TO DO WITH THE NEW ONE
IS TO MATCH THE DORMER PITCHES
AND THE 12 PITCHES YOU SEE
COMMONLY ON THE BLOCK AND THEN
ALSO JUST SORT OF THE HEIGHTS
OF THE HOMES.
SO SOMETHING THAT WOULD MAKE IT
MATCH A LITTLE BETTER THAN THAN
WHAT DOES CURRENTLY WE DID HGC
PRINCIPLES FOR BUILDING THESE
STRUCTURES IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT AND THESE ARE THE SO
MAINTAINING THE EXISTING
SPACING FOR FRONT AND SIDE YARD
SETBACKS ALONG THE BLOCK AS
SEEN FROM THE STREET AND THIS
SLIDE WAS REFERRED TO THIS
YELLOW LINE HERE ALL OF THESE
HOUSES MATCH UP PRETTY WELL AND
THEN YOU GET TO THIS HOUSE AND
IT&apos;S IT IS KIND OF TWISTED ON
THE WALL AND I THINK PROBABLY
THE ORIGINAL HOME THAT WAS
THERE WAS PROBABLY A LITTLE BIT
TIRED AND THEN WHEN THEY MOVED
THE OTHER HOUSE ON JUST KIND
OF PUTTING THEM TOGETHER, IT&apos;S
GOT A SIGNIFICANT HOUSE TO IT.
AND IF YOU THERE ARE A FEW
ORIENTATION POINTS IF YOU LIKE
ON THAT HOUSE A LINE UP.
SO WE DID TURN IT TO MATCH THE
BUILDINGS TO THE SOUTH IN TERMS
OF ITS ALIGNMENT TO THE STREET
AND THEN ALSO SQUARED IT UP TO
THE STREET AND THEN DOWN TO THE
NORTH IS THE CORNWALL MANSION
WHERE IT IS CONSIDERABLY AND AS
JILL SAID, A KIND OF HISTORIC
DISTRICT KIND OF PETERS OUT
THERE AND ALL THESE CHANGES
FORM.
&gt;&gt; SO THIS WAS ACTUALLY AN
IMPROVEMENT TO TO IT BECAUSE IT
BRINGS IT MORE IN LINE WITH THE
WITH THE OTHER WITH THE OTHER
HOMES ON THE BLOCK NOT ONLY IN
TERMS OF THE MASSING IN THE
BUILDING AND THE ROOF LINES AND
THINGS LIKE THAT BUT ALSO HOW
IT&apos;S ALIGNED TO THE STREET
LIGHTING THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE
TOWARDS THE STREET AND CLEARLY
IDENTIFYING A FRONT DOOR.
SO WE HAVE A TRADITIONAL PORCH
ON THE FRONT IS THE FRONT DOOR
AND A PORCH TO THE TO THE
STREET I THINK PROBABLY BETTER
THAN IT DOES NOW WHICH IS
ALMOST KIND OF LIKE A DECK LIKE
APPEARANCE ON THE FRONT WITH
SOME KIND OF STRANGE LITTLE
GABLE&apos;S OVER THE OVER THE EACH
DOOR THAT WE&apos;RE ACTUALLY A
PORCH WAS CUT OFF AT A 45
DEGREE ANGLE.
I CAN KIND OF TELL THAT
BUILDING WAS PUT TOGETHER IN
NINETEEN TWENTY NINE BECAUSE IT
LOOKED LIKE THEY JUST GRABBED
WHATEVER THEY COULD FIND AND
AND KIND OF BUILT IT ON AND ON
A BUILDING BUT IT DOESN&apos;T HAVE
A LOT OF RHYME OR REASON AND
THE MATERIALS ARE LESS AND LESS
THAN A LESS THAN DESIRABLE IN
SOME REGARDS I WHAT I IT DOWN
HERE ON THE FRONT OF THE
PROPERTIES ACROSS THE STREET
WHICH ARE SET BACK A LITTLE BIT
BUT THEY HAVE SOME PAVED AREAS
IN SOME AREAS THAT ARE JUST
CARS PULLING UP AND PARKING ON
SEVERAL HOUSES ACROSS THE
STREET THAT COMES INTO PLAY IN
A LITTLE BIT HERE THE PROPERTY
IS DESIGNING A NEW FRONT FACADE
.
IT&apos;S SIMILAR IN SCALE IN
PROPORTION TO THE OTHER
CONTRIBUTING BUILDINGS AND
AGAIN THAT&apos;S KIND OF THIS SLIDE
HERE.
I THINK IT&apos;S MUCH MORE AND MORE
IN CONTEXT WITH THE
NEIGHBORHOOD YOU GO DOWN THE
STREET AND CERTAINLY AROUND
GENERALLY THE OLD FOURTH WARD
PLACEMENTS GAME SPACING
ORIENTATION OF WINDOWS DOORS.
WE TRY VERY HARD TO GET THIS
BUILDING A HISTORICAL CONTEXT
IN THAT REGARD WITH OUR WINDOW
PLACEMENT AND I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T
THINK THAT&apos;S OUT OF ALIGNMENT
THERE IN ANY WAY BETTER THAN
WHAT IT IS AGAIN WHAT IT IS
RIGHT NOW FOR SURE SELECTING
THE TERMS AND FINISHES THAT ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE START
MATERIALS AND FINISHES FOUND IN
SURROUNDING CONTRIBUTING
BELDING&apos;S IS ONE DOWN HERE YOU
CAN BE SOMETHING THAT IS OF A
CHARACTER THAT YOU WOULD FIND
ONLY IN THE AREA.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE SETTING THE
WINDOWS INTO INTO THE INTO THE
WINDOW OPENINGS A LITTLE BIT TO
GIVE THEM A LITTLE BIT MORE
TEXTURE.
THEY&apos;RE REALLY ALL THE TRIM
THAT YOU WOULD SEE NORMALLY IN
AN OLD HOUSE.
SO SO YOU KNOW, A NICE BIG
BEEFY TRIM AND A WELL-MADE SORT
OF EXTERIOR THAT THAT CONTEXT
WITH THE OTHER HOMES IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD OR A HOME THAT WAS
BUILT OF SARAH USING A WOOD
BASE TRIM.
I HAVE TRIED REALLY, REALLY
HARD TO FIND ANTIQUE CLAPBOARD
SIDING.
I&apos;VE LOOKED ALL OVER INDIANA,
OHIO AND MICHIGAN.
NOBODY SEEMS TO HAVE TALKED TO
ALL THE SALVAGE PEOPLE FOR OLD
HOUSES IT&apos;S JUST NOT SOMETHING
THAT PEOPLE SALVAGE.
I&apos;M PRETTY CERTAIN THAT WHAT I
FIND ON THE HOUSE WHEN WE PULL
THE THREE LAYERS OF SIDING OFF
IS THAT UNDERLYING ALL THAT THE
THE EXISTING CUPBOARDS ARE
GOING TO HAVE A LOT OF NAILS IN
THEM.
I&apos;VE WORKED WITH OLD SIDING
QUITE A LOT IN MY CAREER AND IT
SPLITS VERY EASILY WHEN NAILS
ARE DRIVEN THROUGH IT AND WE&apos;VE
GOT TWO LAYERS OF ASPHALT AND
THEN VINYL OVER THAT.
SO THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE QUITE A
LOT OF NAILS THAT WERE DRIVEN
THROUGH IT.
BUT NONETHELESS EVEN I COULD
SAVE A GOOD SHARE OF IT.
IT&apos;S A SMALL AMOUNT OF WHAT I
WOULD NEED MAYBE ENOUGH TO DO
ONE SIDE, MAYBE EVEN ONE HALF
OF ANOTHER SIDE BUT THERE IS NO
WAY THAT I&apos;LL FIND A MATERIAL
TO REPLACE THE REST OF IT.
I JUST CAN&apos;T FIND IT AND I
WOULD LOVE TO USE AN ANTIQUE
MATERIAL THERE.
I LOVE OLD SIDING.
I DON&apos;T LIKE WORKING WITH IT
BUT IT JUST DOES NOT SEEM TO BE
ABLE TO BE HAD.
LAST NIGHT IS PLACING UTILITY
CONNECTIONS AT THE REAR
OF OTHER LOCATION THAT MINIMIZE
VISIBILITY FROM THE STREET.
ALL THAT IS GOING UNDERGROUND.
THE ONLY THING THAT WILL BE
VISIBLE FROM THE STREET AS
REQUIRED BY THE FIRE CODE TO
HAVE A FIRE WHAT DO YOU CALL IT
THE THINGS THAT THEY TAP INTO
ON THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE IN A
STRAW SO THAT THAT WILL GO OFF
IN THE EVENT OF A FIRE DOESN&apos;T
NEED TO BE SPRINKLER.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S NOT APPROPRIATE
AND THAT&apos;S PAVING ON HIGH
PERCENTAGE OF THE FRONT YARD OR
OTHERWISE DISRUPTING LANDSCAPE
PATTERNS WITHIN FRONT YARDS.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT
WHILE THE FRONT AREA TO THE
LIKE I SAID IS NINE FEET AND
THAT WILL BE PAVED, I COULD
SKATE IN SOME WAYS AND MAKE
MORE OF LIKE A WALKWAY THAT
WOULD STILL RETAIN YOUR KEEP
THE THE HANDRAIL OUT OF THERE.
BUT THIS JUST DOES SO MANY NICE
THINGS FOR I REALLY IN MY HEART
I&apos;M LIKE THIS ISN&apos;T REALLY THAT
MUCH LOWER THAN THE SIDEWALK.
SO I I THINK THAT THAT CUT
STONE WALL ON THE OUTSIDE
THAT&apos;S GOING TO LOOK AMAZING
AND IT WILL BE PRETTY WELL IN
CONTEXT WITH THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AT LEAST UP THE STREET.
IF YOU LOOK HERE WE&apos;VE JUST GOT
LANDSCAPING ALL THROUGH HERE
AND THE SIDE IS COMPLETELY
LANDSCAPED SO IT&apos;S JUST GOING
TO BE THIS NICE GREEN BUFFER
AROUND EVERYWHERE AND MATERIALS
WILL BE NATURAL LOOKING
MATERIALS.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE IMMEDIATE
CONTEXT OF THE AREA AGAIN I&apos;M
SEEING A LOT OF PARKING OUT IN
FRONT AND THINGS LIKE THAT AND
I KNOW THAT&apos;S NOT WHAT THE CDC
WOULD LIKE TO SEE BUT IT IS
WHAT&apos;S THERE THE OTHER
NONCONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE
ACROSS THE STREET THAT THE THE
FLATIRON BUILDING HAS A SIMILAR
CONTEXT AND IT IS ALMOST ONE
HUNDRED PERCENT PAVED WITH THAT
SAME CONCRETE WALL OUT FRONT.
THE ONLY DIFFERENCE BEING IS
THAT THAT&apos;S MADE FOR CARS, NOT
FOR PEOPLE.
SO WE&apos;VE DONE OUR BEST TO
SOFTEN THIS UP AND TO MINIMIZE
IT WHILE STILL GETTING ALL THE
ADVANTAGES USING THE HANDRAIL
FRONT ENTIRELY AND GIVING THE
OCCUPANTS OF THE BUILDING
SOMETHING THAT THEY CAN REALLY
ENJOY.
SO I THINK THAT IN TERMS OF THE
CONTEXT OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD I
FELT LIKE IT DOES.
BUT THERE IS SOME THINGS THAT
ARE ARRIVING WITH ST. ANDREW&apos;S
CHURCH UP THE BLOCK.
WE ARE DOING AN EXTENSIVE
LANDSCAPING JOB TO TRY AND AND
MAKE THIS SOMETHING THAT WE
WOULD LOOKS AS GOOD AS IT&apos;S
GOING TO FUNCTION AND IT WILL
CERTAINLY BE BETTER FOR THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE THERE.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S A I&apos;D LIKE TO I&apos;D
LIKE TO BUILD THIS AT THIS
POINT I&apos;M GOING TO BE LOOKING
AT STARTING IN JUNE OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE I HAVE TO BUILD
DOWN THE ACADEMIC CALENDAR BUT
I, I JUST I HOPE FOR THE
OPPORTUNITY TO BE ABLE TO TO
BUILD THIS THIS BUILDING I&apos;M
I&apos;M KIND OF AT THE POINT
OF WHETHER THIS IS GOING TO GO
FORWARD OR NOT BUT I BOUGHT
THIS BUILDING MY WIFE AND I
BOUGHT THIS BUILDING TWENTY TWO
YEARS AGO.
I BOUGHT IT KNOWING THAT AT
SOME POINT IN THE FUTURE IT WAS
GOING TO NEED AN EXTENSIVE
PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S STRUCTURALLY VERY
DEFICIENT AND I WOULD LIKE TO
DO SOMETHING SIGNIFICANT WITH
THAT AS A A MUCH BETTER SORT
OF GOAL IN THE PROJECT THAN
JUST TO PUT UP A BUILDING THAT
PEOPLE CAN LIVE IN.
SO YOU KNOW, THIS WILL BE NET
POSITIVE ENERGY.
IT&apos;S ALL AN ALL ELECTRIC SOLAR
POWERED HOME.
WE&apos;VE DESIGNED IT TO HAVE ULTRA
LOW WATER USE.
IT IS DESIGNED TO FIT THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT.
WE MADE THAT ELEPHANT IN THE
BACK EVEN BECAUSE THE ORIGINAL
RED THE ORIGINAL HOME HAD THE
FOOTPRINT OF THAT RED HOME YOU
SEE THERE AND PROBABLY WASN&apos;T
REALLY ALL THAT DIFFERENT IN
APPEARANCE AT LEAST IN SOME
REGARD IN TERMS OF THE
ROOFLINES AND THINGS LIKE THAT
.
WE BELIEVE IT VASTLY BEAUTIFIES
THE STREETSCAPE ON DIVISION
STREET.
THIS HAS STRONG SUPPORT OF THE
OLD
WARD NEIGHBORHOOD
ASSOCIATION.
IT&apos;LL BE A WELL-BUILT BUILDING
FOR MANY LIFETIMES PROVIDES A
BETTER LIVING SPACE FOR
TENANTS.
IT&apos;S ALSO GOING TO BE A REALLY
KIND OF A SHINING STAR OF THE
CITY&apos;S 2030 GOALS FOR WHAT THEY
ARE LOOKING FOR HOUSING AND
STUDENT RENTAL HOUSING IS BY
FAR AND AWAY THE WORST CLASS
OF WORST PERFORMING CLASS
BUILDINGS WHEN IT COMES TO
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE CITY BY A
LONG SHOT.
AND YOU KNOW IF WE&apos;RE I&apos;M
ACTUALLY HAVE A MEETING WITH
THE CITY TOMORROW TO TALK ABOUT
HOW CAN WE GREEN OUR STUDENT
RENTAL STOCK AND YOU WHAT THIS
PART OF THE GOAL OF THIS IS TO
SHOW PEOPLE IS THAT YOU CAN
INVEST SOMEONE SAY OVER INVEST
IN A PROPERTY ON THE FRONT END.
BUT I BELIEVE IF WE CAN DO THIS
RIGHT THAT THEN IT&apos;LL IT&apos;LL
RETURN DIVIDENDS FOR A LONG
TIME.
IT MAY TAKE A LOT LONGER TO PAY
OFF BUT IN THE END IT&apos;S GOING
TO BE SOMETHING THAT&apos;S READY
FOR THE NEXT HUNDRED YEARS AND
NOT SOMETHING THAT&apos;S GOING TO
NEED TO BE RETROFIT IN THE
FUTURE AND SOMETHING THAT IS AS
MUCH MORE COMFORTABLE, MUCH
HEALTHIER USING SUSTAINABLE
MATERIALS.
IT JUST REALLY IS SOMETHING
THAT I STRONGLY BELIEVE IS AN
IMPORTANT EXAMPLE FOR WHAT CAN
HAPPEN WHEN YOU TAKE THE LONG
TERM VIEW IN BUILDING YOU KNOW,
ESPECIALLY THINGS LIKE INCOME
PROPERTIES WILL BE REPLACING
CITY INFRASTRUCTURE OUT ON THE
STREET AT NO COST TO TAXPAYERS
AND THE TAXMAN IS GOING TO BE
MAKING A LOT MORE ON THIS FRONT
FROM THIS BUILDING THAN WHAT
WE&apos;RE CURRENTLY PAYING ON ON
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE.
SO I THINK IN ALL OF THOSE
CONTEXTS THIS IS A MUCH MORE
APPROPRIATE BUILDING FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD BOTH IN LOOKS AND
IN FUNCTION.
AND I HOPE THAT THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSIONERS WILL SEE
IT THE SAME AND GRANTED THE
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR PRESENTATION
AND GIVING US ALL A REFRESHER
ON THE PROJECT, THE MATERIALS,
THE COMPOSITION AND THE THE
MODIFICATIONS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S GOOD TO SEE IT AGAIN.
I&apos;M JUST REMINDING THE
COMMISSIONERS THE THE PROJECT
DOES HAVE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS SO WE&apos;RE
REALLY JUST LOOKING AT SOME
OF THE MAJOR MODIFICATIONS AND
IF THERE ARE ANY ISSUES WITH
WITH CHANGES IN MATERIALS OR
WINDOW REPLACEMENT, I DON&apos;T I
DON&apos;T THINK THERE&apos;S ANY ISSUES
WITH ANY OF THOSE BEAUSOLEIL
THE FRONT YARD IS THE MAJORITY
OF WHERE THE CHANGE OCCURS IN
TERMS OF THAT GOT FRONT YARD
AND THE GUARDRAIL.
UM, DO ANY OF THE COMMISSIONERS
HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
A QUESTION TO DOUG WHEN WHEN
YOU SPOKE EARLIER ABOUT THE UM
THE PROPOSED CONCRETE TREATMENT
AND THE ESTHETICS OF IT THAT
WAS REALLY THE MESSAGE THAT I
HEARD THAT YOU WERE PROPOSING
THIS SOLID CONCRETE PAVED
SURFACE IN THE IN THAT FRONT
PORTION OF THE YARD THAT IN UM
BUT I AND I APOLOGIZE IF I
MISSED IT BUT I DIDN&apos;T HEAR
THAT THERE WAS A PERFORMANCE OR
SOME SORT OF WATER ISSUE REASON
FOR THE SOLID CONCRETE THAT&apos;S
GOING IN.
&gt;&gt; IT WAS MORE OF AN ESTHETIC
DECISION.
IS THAT CORRECT?
YES.
I HAD TO PUT A DRAIN IN THIS
AREA REGARDLESS EVEN IF I WAS
TO DO ANY TYPE OF PAVEMENT
MATERIALS BECAUSE DOESN&apos;T WORK
HERE.
SO EVEN PAVERS EVEN PERVIOUS
PAVERS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
STILL AREN&apos;T GOING TO
INFILTRATE WATER TO THE CITY
STANDARDS OR REALLY WHAT I
WOULD WANT SEEING IS, YOU KNOW,
THE LAST THING YOU WANT IS A
POND IN THAT AREA.
&gt;&gt; SO THE MATERIALS WERE NOT
SELECTED FROM A WATER
MANAGEMENT PERSPECTIVE BUT MORE
FROM AN ESTHETIC PERSPECTIVE
THAT IS CORRECT THAT THE WATER
WILL BE MANAGED THROUGH A DRAIN
AND THAT IN THAT AND THAT AREA.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
ROCKLIN.
OK, SO I I&apos;D LIKE TO HEAR SOME
SOME MORE I GUESS A REITERATION
OF THE BENEFITS OF SOME OF THE
CUTS STONE WALL THAT YOU&apos;RE
PROPOSING AND I&apos;M ASKING THAT
BECAUSE LIKE WE HAD THE GUARD
RAIL WHICH SEEMED TO PLACE BUT
THE YARD WAS SORT OF GOING TO
BE LEFT AS IS I MEAN WE DIDN&apos;T
SEE MAYBE A LANDSCAPE PLAN BUT
THE YARD WAS NOT GOING TO BE
SUNK IN AND WE SAID CAN YOU
MOVE THE GUARDRAIL NORTH OF THE
THE SOUTH ELEVATION OF THE WALL
AND AND THEN SO THE GUARDRAIL
WENT AWAY.
BUT NOW WE&apos;VE GOT A SUNKEN YARD
AND A VERY LONG CUT STONE WALL
.
SO I GUESS IT&apos;S I JUST WANT TO
HEAR AGAIN LIKE TELL ME AGAIN
LIKE WHAT ARE THE BENEFITS TO
THE PROJECT OF HAVING LIKE OK
SO WE HAVE TO GET DOWN TO THE
AREA BELOW AND THERE&apos;S A COUPLE
OF WAYS TO DO IT.
SO IN THE WAY YOU&apos;RE PROPOSING
NOW WHAT IS THE BENEFIT
OF GOING TO THE SUNKEN YARD
WITH THE WALL TO THE OVERALL
PROJECT BECAUSE LIKE I KIND
OF SEE IT LIKE SIX ONE HALF
DOZEN THE OTHER WHERE WE HAD A
GUARDRAIL NOW WE HAVE A WALL
AND WE CAN STILL GET DOWN TO
UNDERNEATH THE PORCH.
BUT ARE THERE OTHER BENEFITS
THAT THAT WALL IS PROVIDING THE
PROJECT AND CAN YOU EXPLAIN
THOSE AGAIN PLEASE?
SURE.
&gt;&gt; WE ALWAYS WERE GOING TO NEED
A WALL ALONGSIDE THE DRIVEWAY
AND THAT&apos;S JUST FOR EGRESS ON
THE SIDE.
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE A
CODE REQUIREMENT.
OK,.
THAT&apos;S GOING TO BE A
CODE REQUIREMENT.
OK, OBVIOUSLY THE CUT STONE
WALL WAS PURELY ESTHETIC
BECAUSE WE THOUGHT, YOU KNOW,
THERE&apos;S PRECEDENT IN THE
NEIGHBORHOOD FOR IT AND WE
THOUGHT IT WOULD LOOK BEAUTIFUL
THE REGARDLESS OF WHAT WE
NEEDED TO DO IN ORDER TO GET
RID OF THE HANDRAIL ENTIRELY
WHAT WE NEEDED TO DO IS TO COME
DOWN TO STEPS OFF OF THE
WALKWAY TO THE PORCH AND THAT
WAS SO THAT WAS REALLY WHAT
ALLOWED US TO GET BY WITHOUT
HAVING ANYWHERE WHERE WE DON&apos;T
NEED ANY RAILING AT ALL IN
ORDER TO GET DOWN TO THE LOWER
PART WITHOUT YOU KNOW, AND
STILL BEING ABLE TO MEET CODE .
WE TRIED TO KEEP THAT AS
MINIMAL AS POSSIBLE BECAUSE
BECAUSE WE DIDN&apos;T WANT TO
CREATE SOMETHING THAT LOOKED
OUT OF PLACE OR CONSIDERABLY
LOWER FOR INSTANCE, WHEN ACROSS
THE STREET WHEN YOU&apos;RE WALKING
BACK IN KIND OF PEER OVER THAT
WALL AND LOOK DOWN SIX FEET,
YOU KNOW THERE&apos;S NO OTHER WAY
FOR THEM TO DO IT.
I UNDERSTAND WHY THAT&apos;S THERE.
BUT IN OUR CASE WE&apos;RE LIKE HOW
CAN WE TURN THAT INTO A BENEFIT
FOR THE OCCUPANTS AND SOMETHING
THAT ACTIVATES THE STREETSCAPE
AND THAT&apos;S SOMETHING THE CITY
HAS BEEN REAL IN FAVOR OF IS IS
BRINGING BRINGING PEOPLE OUT
INTO THE ON THE PORCHES AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
SO THOSE WHO WAS MEETING CITY
GOALS, IT WAS MEETING GOALS
OF OF LOWER GARDEN APARTMENT
HAVING AN AREA TO BE ABLE TO
ENJOY THE OUTSIDE LIKE EVERY
OTHER FLOOR OF THE BUILDING
DOES AND THESE ARE FLAT SO EACH
EACH LEVEL HAS ITS OWN
APARTMENT AND SO WE THOUGHT
GOSH THIS IS A REALLY NICE AREA
FOR THEM TO BE ABLE TO ENJOY A
SUNNY DAY, MAYBE EVEN DO A
BARBECUE, SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
AND IT&apos;S SO THE TWO CHOICES WE
REALLY HAD WERE TO COME OFF
OF THE DRIVEWAY OR TO COME OFF
OF THE FRONT AND COMING OFF
OF THE FRONT AS WE ARE IN THE
IN THE REVISED PLAN ALLOWS IT
SO THAT WE REALLY ONLY HAVE TO
COME DOWN TWO STEPS OFF OF OF
THAT AND BECAUSE THE TERRAIN IS
FALLING THERE I MEAN IF THE
TERRAIN WAS FLAT IN THAT AREA
YOU WOULD BARELY EVEN NOTICE IT
AT ALL.
IT&apos;S ONLY BECAUSE THE SIDEWALK
IS GOING UP THAT IT BECOMES
EVIDENT THAT THAT AREA IS A
LITTLE BIT LOWER BUT IT&apos;S LIKE
MAYBE UP TO YOUR KNEE IN TERMS
OF THE TOTAL HEIGHT DIFFERENCE
FROM FROM THE SIDEWALK.
SO WE JUST FELT LIKE IT WAS A
MINIMAL CHANGE.
WE TRIED WE USED A CUT STONE
WALL TO PROVIDE PRECEDENT
BECAUSE WE LIKED THE WAY THAT
THEY KIND OF DID IT IN THE
CHURCH UP THE STREET AND AND
BECAUSE WE HAD TO DEAL WITH
THAT TRAIN IN SOME WAY IF WE
WANTED TO GET RID OF THEM IN.
THANK YOU.
DID THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION?
YEAH, I&apos;M NOT SURE.
YEAH, NO THAT WAS THAT WAS WHAT
I WANTED TO HEAR.
&gt;&gt; OK I HAVE A QUESTION
ACTUALLY SO YOU STATED NINE
FEET FROM THE FRONT OF THE
HOUSE TO THE TO THE SECOND WALL
.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S CORRECT YES.
WELL IT&apos;S NINE FEET TO LET ME
SEE HOLD ON ONE SECOND.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT MIGHT BE TO THE
PORCH.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I GUESS THAT&apos;S MY POINT
OF CLARIFICATION.
I THINK ON PAGE THIRTY SEVEN
AND I THINK IT&apos;S ON THAT SLIDE
WHERE YOU HAD THE YELLOW LINE
INDICATING THAT YES I SEE
ELEVEN AND THREE QUARTER REPORT
SET BACK AND THEN EIGHTEEN
YEAH.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S SIXTY SIX DENHA LET
ME PULL THAT UP A LITTLE BIT OK
SO THIS DRAWING IS A LITTLE BIT
AN ERROR BECAUSE THE WALL IS
ALL THE WAY UP TO THE SIDEWALK
IN THIS CASE AND WE BROUGHT IT
IN BOARD SO THAT WE CAN HAVE
SOME PLANTINGS THERE AND WE&apos;RE
ABLE TO TO LOSE A STEP GOING UP
TO THE PORCH SO IT&apos;S NINE FEET
FROM THE FRONT OF THE PORCH TO
THE TO TO THE OUTSIDE OF THE
WALL LET&apos;S SAY THE STREETSCAPE
SIDE OF THE WALL AND THEN IT IS
THERE IS A PORCH IT&apos;S SIX AND A
HALF FEET.
SO IT&apos;D BE LET&apos;S SEE NINE FEET
PLUS SIX AND I&apos;M NOT GREAT AT
MATH ON THE SPOT ABOUT SIXTEEN
FEET.
YEAH ALL OF THESE HOUSES ARE
PRETTY CLOSE TO THE STREET ON
THE ON THE ON THE EAST SIDE
.
SO THEN WHAT DOES THAT LEAVE
APPROXIMATELY FOR YOUR
LANDSCAPE?
IS IT ABOUT TWO FEET MAYBE.
OK AND THEN SO IS THIS PLAN
SHOW APPROXIMATELY THE WHERE
THE WALL WILL SIT ON AN
ADJACENCY TO THE DRIVEWAY?
UM SO IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S ALSO
APPROXIMATELY TWO FEET SO JUST
KIND OF GAUGING THE OVERALL
SIZE.
&gt;&gt; YES, IT&apos;S THREE FEET FROM
THE DRIVEWAY AND UNFORTUNATELY
THE DRIVEWAY HAS TO BE ONE
OF THE REASONS WE NEEDED A
SMALL RAILING ON THE ON THE
WALL GOING UP NEAR THE SIDE
ENTRY WAS BECAUSE THE WAY THAT
THE DRIVEWAY HAS TO CURVE IN WE
BECAME LESS THAN THREE FEET FOR
A SHORT DISTANCE BUT THAT&apos;S UP
THE SIDE OF A LITTLE BIT AND SO
YEAH SO THAT&apos;S THREE FEET ON
THE SIDE AND TWO FEET IN THE OK
.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS I OPEN THIS
UP FOR PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; UM IF THERE&apos;S A MEMBER
OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK ON THE ITEM AT FIVE
THIRTY NORTH DIVISION HAVE UP
TO THREE MINUTES TO SPEAK ABOUT
THIS APPLICATION.
&gt;&gt; UM KRISTEN DO WE HAVE ANY
CALLERS?
&gt;&gt; THERE ARE NO CALLERS WHO
CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE A COMMISSIONER THAT
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THE APPLICATION?
&gt;&gt; COMMISSIONER FORTNER
, I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION AT FIVE
THIRTY NORTH DIVISION STREET
AND NON CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY
IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ALTER THE
PREVIOUSLY APPROVED LOWER FRONT
ENTRANCE BY CONSTRUCTING A
FRONT PATIO WITH A CUT STONE
RETAINING WALL SLIGHTLY REALIGN
A STRUCTURE TO BE PARALLEL TO
THE STREET, MAKE MINOR WINDOW
MODIFICATIONS AND COMPOSITE
LAMP CLADDING ON THE FRONT AND
FIBER CEMENT BOARD CLADDING ON
THE REAR WING OF THE BUILDING
AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS NINE AND TEN AND THE
GUIDELINES FOR DISTRICT OR
NEIGHBORHOOD SETTING AS WELL AS
THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY
AS THEY PERTAIN TO ALL NEW
CONSTRUCTION AND NEW
CONSTRUCTION IN HISTORIC
RESIDENTIAL SETTINGS SECTION BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER SECONDED
BY COMMISSIONER WHITE
DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION UM
STAFF.
I THINK IN GENERAL THE MAJORITY
OF THE MODIFICATIONS TO THE
STRUCTURE ITSELF ARE UM
COMPLETELY WITHIN OUR
GUIDELINES.
UM, I APPRECIATE JUST THE BARE
LOOKING ONCE AGAIN AT
PROPORTIONING WINDOWS HOUSING
AND DOOR PLACEMENT AND WHATNOT
BUT I THINK THOSE ARE
INSIGNIFICANT IN THE OVERALL
SCHEME OF THE MODIFICATION.
UM, I THINK SLIGHT ENOUGH THAT
THERE THEY STILL FALL WITHIN
THE GUIDELINES.
&gt;&gt; UM, THERE&apos;S THE LAST PAGE
OF THE PRESENTATION IN THE
PACKET GIVES A LITTLE BIT
OF THAT PERSPECTIVE OF I THINK
THAT THAT SUNKEN PORCH AREA
WHICH I THINK IS IS INTERESTING
TO SEE BECAUSE INITIALLY WHEN
WE ARE ON SITE IT IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF YARD SPACE TO
TO SORT OF PAVE OVER IT IS IT
IS I WOULD SAY FRONT YARD IS
MORE OUT OF CHARACTER FOR A A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
I THINK YOU KNOW, LOOKING AT
THIS CONDITION IN THE LANDSCAPE
BUFFER AND THE SITE WALL AND
THE HEIGHT OF THE SITE WELL
RELATIVELY MINOR.
IT&apos;S NOT AT THE SITE WALL
ITSELF IS NOT OUT OF CHARACTER.
&gt;&gt; UM, I THINK THIS PERSPECTIVE
FOR ME I THINK IS INTERESTING
AND THAT IT&apos;S IT DOES START TO
I THINK INDICATE THAT UM THAT
SENSE OF A LIVELY SPACE AND
ALMOST HAS SOME SOME YOU KNOW,
RESONANCE TO YOU KNOW, LIKE A
MORE OF A MODERN CITY BLOCK
THAT HAS A LOWER STOOP OUTSIDE
OF A FRONT DOOR THAT MAYBE AN
ACTIVATED SPACE WHICH THIS IS
KIND OF A TRANSITIONAL ZONE
BEGINNING MAYBE A LITTLE BIT
OUTSIDE OF CHARACTER FOR THIS
PARTICULAR AREA.
&gt;&gt; BUT I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S
COMPLETELY OUTSIDE OF CHARACTER
FOR THE PROJECT IN THE END IT&apos;S
USED TO ACTIVATE THE FRONT YARD
TO UH IF ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS OR ADEQUATE QUESTION
FOR THE RECORD FROM DOUG, THIS
SORT OF UH NOT THAT NECESSARILY
PERTAINING BUT I WANTED TO ASK
HIM BEFORE WE&apos;RE FINISHED HERE
BECAUSE I THINK OVERALL IT IS
IMPORTANT AND I JUST WAS
CURIOUS FROM THE APPLICANT IF
THE PROJECT IS STILL LOOKING
FOR A LIVING BUILDING CHALLENGE
OR FIRE CERTIFICATION, I&apos;M JUST
THINK WE SHOULD ALL BE CURIOUS
FROM THE HISTORIC DISTRICT.
&gt;&gt; YES.
I AM SEEKING BOTH ON THIS
PROJECT.
IT WOULD BE THE FIRST FIRST
MULTIFAMILY BUILDING IN THE
WORLD TO ACHIEVE BOTH AND ALSO
THE FIRST MODULAR BUILDING
PERIOD TO ACHIEVE A LIVING
BUILDING CHALLENGE
CERTIFICATION.
THANK YOU.
WE&apos;RE READY FOR A VOTE ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, THERE&apos;S OPPOSED.
PLEASE SAY NO MOTION CARRIES
THE APPLICATION HAS BEEN
APPROVED AND PLEASE THAT THE
APPLY FOR ANY REQUIRED PERMITS
FROM THE CITY BEFORE BEGINNING
YOUR PROJECT.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT WELL THROUGH WITH
HEARINGS ON TO NEW BUSINESS THE
THERE&apos;S NO NEW BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS THERE IS NEW
BUSINESS.
WE HAVE A DC RETREAT
SCHEDULING.
YES.
SO THE DC ANNUAL RETREAT TAKES
PLACE IN THE SPRING ON A
SATURDAY MORNING FROM ABOUT
9:00 TO NOON.
WE MOVE IT AROUND TO DIFFERENT
PLACES, LOCATIONS AND WE NEED
TO WORK ON CHOOSING A DATE FOR
THAT.
COMMISSIONER WHITE HAS KINDLY
PRESENTED ME WITH A LIST OF HIS
CHOICES AND OR HIS AVAILABILITY
AND WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT LATE MARCH
OR APRIL THE TIME HE GETS TO
ME.
&gt;&gt; NOBODY WANTS TO BE INDOORS
ON A SATURDAY MORNING FOR HALF
DAY TO LOOK AT SLIDES AND
THINGS.
SO BETWEEN NOW AND THEN WE&apos;VE
GOT UH ONE, TWO, THREE, FOUR,
FIVE, SIX, SIX OR SEVEN
SATURDAY MORNINGS IF SATURDAY
MORNING JUST DOESN&apos;T WORK
COMPLETELY FOR SOMEBODY, JUST
SAY SO.
OTHERWISE WE WILL CONTINUE
TALKING ABOUT SATURDAY, OK?
&gt;&gt; I WILL THROUGHOUT MARCH
TWENTY SIX IN APRIL TWO BECAUSE
IT&apos;S SPRING BREAK WEEK AND I
WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE OK
CRITICAL THIS IS THE EARLIEST
DATE IS MARCH 19 WHICH IS A
LITTLE QUICK FOR ME BECAUSE
IT&apos;S LIKE A WEEK FROM SATURDAY
AND I&apos;M NOT SURE I CAN PULL
TOGETHER THAT QUICKLY.
I&apos;M OUT OF TOWN OK DAYS OUT
OF TOWN SO I WOULD LIKE TO
PROPOSE POSSIBLY APRIL 16 BUT
WE HAVE NO OBJECTION TO HANG
UPS ON THE SIXTEENTH.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SO EXCITED YOU&apos;RE ALL
HERE TO THE FIRST TIME IN A
LONG TIME MAYBE WE CAN ACTUALLY
DO THIS BOOKIT DOES ANYONE HAVE
A DATE THEY WOULD PREFER
INSTEAD OF THE SIXTEENTH THE
NINTH OR THE TWENTY THIRD?
OUR OTHER CANDIDATES THROUGH
THE NINTH OR THE 16TH?
YEAH FOR ME NINTH OR SIXTEENTH
IS JUST OK HEARING NO ARGUMENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO TRY TO FIND US
A PLACE TO HOLD THIS ON APRIL
16 9:00 A.M. TO NOON PLEASE BE
PLACED WITH HEAT WOULD BE NICE
I&apos;M SURE I CAN CONTINUING ON
THIS LINE OF THOUGHT DO ANY
OF YOU HAVE A FAVORITE PLACE TO
HOLD IT?
WE GENERALLY GO TO A PARK OR A
HISTORIC BUILDING.
BOB, YOU&apos;VE BEEN TO A FEW
OF THESE.
DO YOU HAVE A FAVORITE?
&gt;&gt; DOES ANYONE ELSE HAVE ANY
SUGGESTIONS PART OF THE YEAH.
THE SENIOR CENTER YEAH.
HIGHWAY WAS NICE.
THAT WAS A NICE SPACE.
THE HIDEAWAY WAS NICE.
YEAH THAT WAS WHERE WE HAD THE
LAST ONE IN PERSON.
&gt;&gt; OH THAT WAS FUN.
&gt;&gt; YEAH DAVE THAT WAS LIKE THE
SECOND WEEK MARCH TWENTY TWENTY
WE HAD THAT YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH
.
ALL RIGHT ALL RIGHT DOWN IT WAS
COMING FROM PARK AND HIDEAWAY.
YEAH.
PATHWAY&apos;S HIDEAWAY YEAH NO IT&apos;S
A FEW DOORS DOWN FROM FLEETWOOD
MAC I YEAH I DID YEAH OK I WILL
CHECK ON THOSE TWO PLACES AND
SEE WHAT&apos;S AVAILABLE ON THE
16TH AND THEN I HAD PUT
TOGETHER A VERY BRIEF LIST
OF POSSIBLE TOPICS TO TALK
ABOUT AT THE RETREAT.
WE USUALLY YOU KNOW THIS IS
THIS IS
ANY IDEAS THAT YOU GUYS
HAVE THAT YOU THINK WE WOULD
BENEFIT FROM A DISCUSSION AS A
WHOLE?
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, I WAS OUT OF A
MEETING WORTH A LITTLE MORE
RELAXED.
IT IS A MEETING AND THE PUBLIC
CAN SHOW UP IF THEY WANT TO BUT
IT&apos;S JUST MORE INFORMAL AND
EASIER TO HAVE A CONVERSATION
THAN, YOU KNOW, YELLING DOWN
THE LINE HERE.
SO A COUPLE OF IDEAS THAT I HAD
WERE JUST A SECOND LET TO GET
MY DUO TO OK, THERE WAS A
CANCELED APPLICATION AT THIS
MEETING AND I DON&apos;T THINK THAT
THIS WOULD BE AS LONG OF A
DISCUSSION AS I THOUGHT AFTER
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE WALKED OUT
OF THE SITE IT WAS WASHINGTON
ON MONDAY BUT WE WE WERE
DISCUSSING WHAT TO DO WITH
SECOND GENERATION WOULD WINDOWS
MEANING HISTORIC HOUSE GOT SOME
WINDOW REPLACEMENTS THAT ARE
NECESSARY.
THEY REPLACE THEM WITH REPLICAS
WITH OR WITHOUT WAITING PULLEY
AND STUFF LIKE THAT.
&gt;&gt; BUT NOW IT&apos;S 20 YEARS LATER
AND THOSE WINDOWS HAVE FAILED.
DO WE MAKE THEM REPLICATE THE
REPLICAS OR DO WE JUST GO WITH
WINDOW WORKSHY TOLERANCES AGAIN
?
I&apos;M NOT I DON&apos;T WANT TO DISCUSS
THIS RIGHT NOW BUT IS THAT
SOMETHING THAT YOU THINK WOULD
BE WORTH A FIFTEEN MINUTE
CONVERSATION?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I WOULD I WOULD
APPRECIATE THE GUIDANCE ANOTHER
THING THAT WE COULD POSSIBLY
TALK ABOUT IS PRESERVATION
MONTH.
THE HTC AWARDS COMMITTEE IS NOT
MEETING AGAIN THIS YEAR IN
FEBRUARY WHEN THEY HAD TO MAKE
A CALL ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT TO
GO OUT AND LOOK AT HOUSES AND
EVERYTHING THEY SAID NO, WE&apos;RE
NOT COMFORTABLE CRAMMING INTO A
VAN FOR A VAN TOUR.
WE&apos;RE NOT GOING TO THROW A BIG
PARTY, STUFF LIKE THAT AND
THAT&apos;S ALL THE FUN STUFF.
SO THEY HAD SUGGESTED A COUPLE
OF THAT.
WE SORT OF HAVE A BEST OF THE
LAST TWENTY TWENTY FIVE YEARS
OF AWARDS SLIDESHOW
PRESENTATION ON THE CITY
WEBSITE AND I CAN DO SOMETHING
LIKE THAT.
BUT THAT BEGS THE QUESTION DO
WE WANT A BETTER WEB PRESENCE?
ARE THERE THINGS WE COULD BE
DOING THAT I&apos;M NOT DOING OR
THAT WE&apos;RE OVERLOOKING OR IS IT
WORTH DISCUSSING OUR OUR
DIGITAL PRESENCE AS A
COMMISSION?
YOU KNOW, OR IS OR OR IS IT NOT
NECESSARY?
THAT&apos;S ANOTHER THAT&apos;S ANOTHER.
DO YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT OR
WOULD YOU RATHER SAVE THE TIME
FOR ACTUAL PRESERVATION TOPICS
IF WE HAVE TIME ON THE YOU TO
TALK ABOUT JILL IF WE HAVE
IDEAS COMING OUT OF THAT
BRAINSTORMING SESSION IS THERE
ANY BUDGET OR RESOURCES TO
IMPLEMENT ANY CHANGES TO THE
WEBSITE MAYBE.
&gt;&gt; OK, YEAH RIGHT NOW KRISTEN
VANDERHOOK AND I PRETTY MUCH
MAINTAIN THE WEBSITE OK I
ACTUALLY KRISTEN PRETTY MUCH
MAINTAINS THE WEBSITE.
I OCCASIONALLY GO IN AND ADD OR
SUBTRACT THINGS BUT YOU KNOW WE
HAVE CITY COMMUNICATIONS PEOPLE
,WE HAVE TWITTER ACCOUNTS, WE
HAVE YOU KNOW WE&apos;RE PROBABLY A
CITY INSTAGRAM I DON&apos;T KNOW AND
IT MIGHT BE MINOR THINGS LIKE
JUST GETTING OUR NAME OUT THERE
ONCE IN A WHILE OR IT MIGHT BE
A MAJOR THING LIKE HAVING OUR
OWN DEDICATED STREAM
OF INFORMATION GOING OUT TO THE
PUBLIC.
KRISTEN IS IN FAVOR OF THIS.
SHE SAYS SO MAYBE I&apos;LL JUST
LEAVE THAT IS A QUESTION MARK
FOR NOW AND YOU GUYS CAN MULL
OVER IT AND AND ALWAYS HAVE
IDEAS JUST IT TO ME ANYWAY WE
DON&apos;T HAVE TO WAIT FOR A
WORKING SESSION OR A RETREAT TO
THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO DO WELL
THAT WE ALWAYS DO.
WE HAVE TO DO AN ANNUAL WORK
PLAN AND BY LAW REVIEW THOSE
THAT&apos;S USUALLY 15 MINUTE
DISCUSSION OF THE WORK PLAN AND
THEN THERE&apos;S THE ANNUAL REVIEW
OF PROJECTS WHICH I THINK THAT
YOU ALL LIKE AND GET SOMETHING
OUT OF WHERE WE SHOW PICTURES
OF THINGS THAT HAVE ACTUALLY
BEEN BUILT THAT HAVE BEEN
APPROVED SO WE CAN KIND
OF COMPARE THE DRAWINGS TO WHAT
REALLY HAPPENED AND IT HELPS TO
GET EVERYBODY, YOU KNOW, GIVE
BETTER SENSE OF HERE&apos;S WHAT
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO GET BASED ON
THESE DRAWINGS.
SO THAT&apos;S A PRETTY LIGHTWEIGHT
AGENDA.
SO I WOULD LOVE IF ANY OF YOU
HAVE IDEAS WE HAD A PROJECT
EARLIER THIS YEAR WHERE WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT TALKING ABOUT
EGRESSING WINDOWS EGRESS WINDOW
ISSUES WAS A RENTAL PROPERTY IN
THE FOURTH WARD I THINK WAS IT
THE BASEMENT INGRESS HERE BASED
ON EGRESS I&apos;M SORRY THE
BASEMENT EGRESS WINDOW WAS I
CAN REMEMBER THIS ABOUT THE
PLACEMENT OF WINDOWS.
YES, THEY WERE THERE.
YEAH YEAH.
WE HAD THE ONES THAT WERE VERY
CLOSE TO THE FRONT.
YES WE HAD TWO OF THOSE
APPLICATIONS RIGHT IN A ROW OR
TOGETHER AND THEY WERE BOTH
INAPPROPRIATE.
YOU REMEMBER THAT THAT DID THE
DID THE GUIDELINES NEED TO BE
REVIEWED OF DENHA THAT&apos;S THAT
WOULD BE A GOOD SUCCINCT THING
TO TACKLE IS TO LOOK AT THE
GUIDELINES FOR EGRESS WINDOWS
IN THE DESIGN GUIDELINES
DOCUMENT, MAKE SURE THEY&apos;RE
STILL WHAT WE WANT AND THAT
WOULD TIE IN NICELY TO THE
ANNUAL REVIEW OF PROJECTS
BECAUSE THEY&apos;LL PROBABLY BE
SHOWING SOME BECAUSE WINDOWS
AND YEAH
.
ALL RIGHT.
ANYBODY ELSE NOT A NEW TOPIC
BUT PART OF THE REVIEW
OF PROJECTS THAT WE&apos;VE PROVED
AND I HAD MENTIONED I DON&apos;T
REMEMBER THE ADDRESS IS ON
SEVEN IS LIKE A BLUE AND WHITE
HAT BLUE AND WHITE HOUSE THAT
HAD AN ADDITION PUT ON THE BACK
KIND CLEANED UP FROM PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.
I HAVEN&apos;T BEEN BY IT SINCE YOU
MENTIONED UP BUT KIND
OF UNDERSTANDING THE REALITIES
OF WHAT WE APPROVED WHAT YEAH
WHAT WE&apos;RE PRETTY LITTLE SCALE
.
YES.
SENSE OF SCALE.
YEAH I DON&apos;T I&apos;LL I&apos;LL WRITE
THAT DOWN HERE TOO.
I&apos;LL TRY TO INCLUDE THAT BUT WE
ARE CALC IT&apos;S IN THE SLIDES
IT&apos;S A FEW PAST SEVENTEEN
LIBERTY.
YEAH IT&apos;S ON THE WEST SIDE I
KNOW EXACTLY WHICH ONE YOU
MEAN.
YEAH HAS A LITTLE BIT
OF GINGERBREAD ON THE FRONT WE
MAY HAVE ONE HOUSE SOUTH OF THE
CORNER OF HURON.
&gt;&gt; YES NO OUR LIBERTY LIBERTY
OK THAT WAS CARNEY RIZZOLATTI
BROWN YEAH THAT&apos;S PRETTY GOOD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH PROJECT AND MEMORY I
THINK WE LOOK ONE RETREAT AT
THE END VERY QUICKLY BUT THEY
IT WASN&apos;T COMPLETED.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I THINK IT WAS MAYBE
JUST FRAMED OUT OR PARTIALLY OR
YEAH OK ALL RIGHT I&apos;LL KEEP
THAT IN THE SLIDESHOW.
I KNOW WE HAD A LIST MAYBE FROM
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF IT WAS FROM A
PREVIOUS RETREAT OR I GUESS IT
MAYBE WOULD HAVE BEEN ONE
OF THE ONES THAT WE DID ONLINE
.
WE WERE WE ABLE TO
COVER EVERYTHING THAT WAS ON
THAT THAT LIST.
I WILL CHECK I KNOW THERE ARE
OTHER THINGS THAT HAVE COME UP
BUT THINGS COME TO MIND AT THE
MOMENT I THINK ANY LESS WAS
LEARNED OR AND ANYTHING WE WANT
TO REVEAL ABOUT THE GAS METER
WOULD BE MORE DETAILING WHERE
ARE WE DONE FILICIDE?
WE&apos;RE NOT QUITE DONE WITH THEM
BUT IT&apos;S ALL GOING SWIMMINGLY.
IT&apos;S JUST BEEN A GAS SORRY I
SHOULD PROBABLY BE TALKING TO
MY MIKES.
LET WHEN ME RECORDING THIS SHE
CAN HEAR IT UM DO ANY OF YOU
FEEL LIKE YOU NEED TO KNOW MORE
ABOUT METERS AND SET ENOUGH.
OK WELL IF ANYONE THINKS OF ANY
OTHER TOPICS JUST LET ME KNOW
AND I&apos;LL FILL FILL THESE IN FOR
NOW AND I THINK THAT&apos;LL BE
PLENTY.
&gt;&gt; DO YOU HAVE TO PUBLISH THAT
AGENDA A WEEK BEFORE LIKE THAT
SO IF WE HAVE OTHER THINGS THAT
THE NEXT YEAH WE TO TALK TO THE
NEXT MEETING.
&gt;&gt; YEP YEP YEP.
I&apos;LL ASK YOU FOR MORE IDEAS
THEN WE&apos;LL HAVE ONE BEFORE THEN
RIGHT SO IT&apos;LL BE RIGHT BEFORE
THEN.
YEAH YEAH.
OK THANK YOU ALL VERY MUCH.
SET IT FOR NEW BUSINESS THAT&apos;S
IT FOR NEW BUSINESS FROM TEN
MINUTES THERE WE WERE I THINK
MIA JUST EMAILED THOSE OUT
TODAY SO WE CAN WAIT ON THOSE
OR WE LET OK DOES ANYONE ABLE
TO REVIEW THE MINUTES WE JUST
GOT I ONLY GOT THE FEBRUARY
JANUARY FEBRUARY BUT I DENHA
MAYBE I DIDN&apos;T MAYBE I MISSED
IT.
YOU&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE ENOUGH
HAVE YOU SEEN THE MINUTES AND
ARE YOU COMFORTABLE WITH THEM
OR WOULD YOU LIKE TO WAIT UNTIL
NEXT MONTH FOR JANUARY AND OR
FEBRUARY I SAW THE JANUARY
MINUTES REVIEWED THEM AND THEY
LOOK FINE SO YOU&apos;RE ASKING OK
YEAH JANUARY OK THEN WHY DIDN&apos;T
WE JUST SAW THE JANUARY ONES
AND I
DON&apos;T I THINK SHE EMAILED
FEBRUARY WHATEVER TODAY OR
YESTERDAY.
YES THIS AFTERNOON RIGHT BEFORE
THE MEETING YEAH WE&apos;LL DO SO WE
CAN OK SO JANUARY MEETING
MINUTES CORRECTIONS ARE I SO
DENHA AND MEETING MINUTES ARE
APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; WE WILL REVIEW FEBRUARY NEXT
MONTH.
&gt;&gt; OK GREAT QUICK SHOUT OUT TO
ME.
SHE DEALT WITH ALL SORTS
OF TECHNICAL AND OTHER
DIFFICULTIES I HAD WITH THIS
WEEK&apos;S PACKET SO IF YOU SEE HER
TELL HER THANKS SHE&apos;S KEEPING
THIS SHIP AFLOAT.
RIGHT.
THERE ARE MY REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS&apos; I&apos;D LIKE TO
SHARE SOMETHING WITH THE
COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; NO.
ALL RIGHT.
ASSIGNMENTS FOR THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE ON MONDAY WAS THAT
GOING TO BE APRIL 11 P.M. FIVE
P.M. FIVE?
YEP, DAYLIGHT SAVINGS THIS
WEEKEND.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I CAN PROBABLY I YOU
CAN DO THAT ONE YEAH.
OK
, ANY OTHER VOLUNTEER I MIGHT
BE ABLE TO DO IT.
&gt;&gt; WELL JUST WAIT ONE MINUTE
YOUR YOU&apos;VE GOT A LOT SAVED UP
IN THE BANK OK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO DO IT.
WEDNESDAY APRIL APRIL 11TH AT
FIVE PM MONDAY YOU AVAILABLE.
&gt;&gt; I WILL I WILL DO THAT.
OH GREAT GREAT GREAT THANK YOU
.
TOUR IN OVER KAY REPORTS FROM
STAFF ALL RIGHT THE ACTIVITIES
THE FEBRUARY STUFF ACTUALLY I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF THERE&apos;S A PARTIAL
ONE IN THERE OR NOT.
IT&apos;S MISSING LIKE FIFTY
APPLICATIONS FROM DC BECAUSE
THE CITY IS MOVING TO OUR NEW
PERMIT TRACKING SYSTEM.
I KNOW I&apos;VE KIND OF MENTIONED
THIS BEFORE BUT IT&apos;S ACTUALLY
HAPPENING NEXT WEEK SO PEOPLE
WILL NO LONGER BE ABLE TO HAND
ME A PAPER COPY OF AN
APPLICATION OR EMAIL IT TO ME.
THEY WILL HAVE TO GO ONLINE AND
ENTER ALL THE INFORMATION IN
THEMSELVES WHICH WILL VASTLY
CUT DOWN ON STAFF TIME NOT JUST
ME BUT ME, THE FRONT DESK AND
EVERYBODY ELSE AND THEY&apos;LL BE
ABLE TO PAY ONLINE AS WELL,
WHICH IS ANOTHER HUGE BONUS FOR
US.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE NOT YET FIGURED OUT
HOW TO GET REPORTS OUT OF IT.
THAT&apos;S SORT OF NOT BEEN A
PRIORITY TO DATE.
SO WE&apos;LL MOVE THAT UP ON THE
LIST FOR NEXT MONTH AND UH, I
WILL OR KRISTEN PROBABLY WILL
BE ADDING TO THE SEA WEBSITE
AND THE OTHER CITY WEBSITES
INSTRUCTIONS ON HOW TO USE
THAT, HOW TO GET INTO IT, WHAT
TO PUT WHERE, WHAT DETAILS I
NEED AND HOW TO PAY.
SO THAT&apos;S KIND OF EXCITING WILL
BE A BIG CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; DOES THAT REPLACE YOU TRACK
IT OR IS SEPARATE FROM EACH
PACKET IT REPLACES THAT E TRACK
IT WILL STILL BE AVAILABLE FOR
VIEWING BUT NO NEW PROJECTS OR
PERMITS WILL GO INTO IT AFTER
NEXT WEEK.
&gt;&gt; WHAT&apos;S THE NAME OF THE
SYSTEM?
THE EXTERIOR, THE EXTERNAL TO
THE PUBLIC IT WILL BE CALLED A
STREAM AND INTERNALLY WE CALL
IT AND ROGOV I IN ANY RGV ALL
RIGHT OK WELL GOOD QUESTIONS.
UM CONCERNS HAVE COMMISSIONERS
ANY CONCERNS AND THE
COMMISSIONER WOULD LIKE TO
SHARE OBSOLETED COMMUNICATIONS
.
WE DID HAVE ONE I BELIEVE IT
CAME THROUGH ABOUT HISTORIC
PLAQUE&apos;S.
YEAH.
THE MICHIGAN HERITAGE HOME
SOCIETY IS OFFERING PLAX FOR
HISTORIC HOMES.
I&apos;M NOT I HAVEN&apos;T BEEN ABLE TO
LOOK AT IT AND SEE WHAT THEIR
CRITERIA ARE.
I SUPPOSE IT&apos;S A NICE
ALTERNATIVE FOR PEOPLE THAT
MIGHT NOT QUALIFY FOR OUR
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
PLAX BUT AT THE SAME TIME I
DON&apos;T WANT PEOPLE PUTTING THOSE
UP INSTEAD OF OURS BECAUSE
THOSE ARE REALLY COOL.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THEY COST ABOUT THE
SAME.
THEY&apos;RE BOTH EQUALLY EXPENSIVE.
SO YEAH, IT&apos;S JUST INFORMATION
ABOUT THE CASE.
YEAH.
THERE&apos;S A LITTLE BROCHURE I
FOUND A STACK OF THEM ON MY
DESK AT THE OFFICE WHEN I WENT
IN LAST WEEK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH IT&apos;S IN THE PACKET IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S ME ATTACHED TO IT SHE SAYS
YEAH YEAH I THINK IT WAS IT WAS
PART OF IT AGAIN PART OF THAT
EMAIL WITH THE UPDATED AGENDA
AND IN THE COMMUNICATIONS FROM
OTHER COMMUNITY MEMBERS A
COUPLE OF THE HEARINGS I&apos;LL
INCLUDE THAT WITH YOUR FEBRUARY
PAPER MINUT VOTE.
YEAH.
AND THEN FILL ME IN LATER.
ALL RIGHT.
IT&apos;S VERY 20 MINUTES.
OK, WE&apos;VE GOT IT IN OUR JOURNEY
MARCH 10TH D.C. MEETING NO